<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<body>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="vii" />CHAPTER VII<br />
                <span>The Book of Yesterday</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">T</span>HAT first Saturday and Sunday at New Moon always
            stood out in Emily’s memory as a very wonderful
            time, so crowded was it with new and generally
            delightful impressions. If it be true that we “count
            time by heart throbs” Emily lived two years in it instead
            of two days. Everything was fascinating from the moment
            she came down the long, polished staircase into the
            square hall that was filled with a soft, rosy light coming
            through the red glass panes of the front door. Emily
            gazed through the panes delightedly. What a strange,
            fascinating, red world she beheld, with a weird red sky
            that looked, she thought, as if it belonged to the Day
            of Judgment.</p>
        <p>There was a certain charm about the old house which
            Emily felt keenly and responded to, although she was
            too young to understand it. It was a house which aforetime
            had had vivid brides and mothers and wives, and
            the atmosphere of their loves and lives still hung around
            it, not yet banished by the old-maidishness of the régime
            of Elizabeth and Laura.</p>
        <p>“Why—I’m going to <em>love</em> New Moon,” thought Emily,
            quite amazed at the idea.</p>
        <p>Aunt Laura was setting the breakfast table in the
            kitchen, which seemed quite bright and jolly in the glow
            of morning sunshine. Even the black hole in the ceiling<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_64">64</a></span>
            had ceased to be spookish and become only a commonplace
            entrance to the kitchen loft. And on the red-sandstone
            doorstep Saucy Sal was sitting, preening her fur
            as contentedly as if she had lived at New Moon all her
            life. Emily did not know it, but Sal had already drunk
            deep the delight of battle with her peers that morning
            and taught the barn cats their place once and for all.
            Cousin Jimmy’s big yellow Tom had got a fearful drubbing,
            and was minus several bits of his anatomy, while
            a stuck-up, black lady-cat, who fancied herself considerably,
            had made up her mind that if that grey-and-white,
            narrow-faced interloper from goodness knew where was
            going to stay at New Moon, <em>she</em> was not.</p>
        <p>Emily gathered Sal up in her arms and kissed her joyously,
            to the horror of Aunt Elizabeth, who was coming
            across the platform from the cook-house with a plate
            of sizzling bacon in her hands.</p>
        <p>“Don’t ever let me see you kissing a cat again,” she
            ordered.</p>
        <p>“Oh, all right,” agreed Emily cheerfully. “I’ll only
            kiss her when you don’t see me after this.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t want any of your pertness, miss. You are
            not to kiss cats at all.”</p>
        <p>“But, Aunt Elizabeth, I didn’t kiss her on her mouth,
            <em>of course</em>. I just kissed her between her ears. It’s nice—won’t
            you just try it for once and see for yourself?”
        </p>
        <p>“That will do, Emily. You have said quite enough.”
            And Aunt Elizabeth sailed on into the kitchen majestically,
            leaving Emily momentarily wretched. She felt
            that she had offended Aunt Elizabeth, and she hadn’t the
            least notion why or how.</p>
        <p>But the scene before her was too interesting to worry
            long over Aunt Elizabeth. Delicious smells were coming
            from the cook-house—a little, slant-roofed building
            at the corner where the big cooking-stove was placed in
            summer. It was thickly overgrown with hop vines, as
            most of the New Moon buildings were. To the right<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_65">65</a></span>
            was the “new” orchard, very wonderful now in blossom,
            but a rather commonplace spot after all, since Cousin
            Jimmy cultivated it in most up-to-date fashion and had
            grain growing in the wide spaces between the straight
            rows of trees that looked all alike. But on the other side
            of the barn lane, just behind the well, was the “old orchard,”
            where Cousin Jimmy said the columbines grew
            and which seemed to be a delightful place where trees had
            come up at their own sweet will, and grown into individual
            shapes and sizes, where blue-eyed ivy twined about
            their roots and wild-briar roses rioted over the grey paling
            fence. Straight ahead, closing the vista between the
            orchards, was a little slope covered with huge white
            birches, among which were the big New Moon barns, and
            beyond the new orchard a little, lovable red road looped
            lightly up and up, over a hill, until it seemed to touch
            the vivid blue of the sky.</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy came down from the barns, carrying
            brimming pails of milk, and Emily ran with him to the
            dairy behind the cook-house. Such a delightful spot she
            had never seen or imagined. It was a snow-white little
            building in a clump of tall balm-of-gileads. Its grey
            roof was dotted over with cushions of moss like fat
            green-velvet mice. You went down six sandstone steps,
            with ferns crowding about them, and opened a white
            door with a glass panel in it, and went down three more
            steps. And then you were in a clean, earthy-smelling,
            damp, cool place with an earthen floor and windows
            screened by the delicate emerald of young hop-vines, and
            broad wooden shelves all around, whereon stood wide,
            shallow pans of glossy brown ware, full of milk coated
            over with cream so rich that it was positively yellow.</p>
        <p>Aunt Laura was waiting for them and she strained the
            milk into empty pans and then skimmed some of the
            full ones. Emily thought skimming was a lovely occupation
            and longed to try her hand at it. She also
            longed to sit right down and write a description of that<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_66">66</a></span>
            dear dairy; but alas, there was no account book; still,
            she could write it in her head. She squatted down on a
            little three-legged stool in a dim corner and proceeded
            to do it, sitting so still that Jimmy and Laura forgot
            her and went away and later had to hunt for her a quarter
            of an hour. This delayed breakfast and made Aunt
            Elizabeth very cross. But Emily had found just the
            right sentence to define the clear yet dim green light that
            filled the dairy and was so happy over it that she didn’t
            mind Aunt Elizabeth’s black looks a bit.</p>
        <p>After breakfast Aunt Elizabeth informed Emily that
            henceforth it would be one of her duties to drive the cows
            to pasture every morning.</p>
        <p>“Jimmy has no hired man just now and it will save
            him a few minutes.”</p>
        <p>“And don’t be afraid,” added Aunt Laura, “the
            cows know the way so well they’ll go of themselves.
            You have only to follow and shut the gates.”</p>
        <p>“I’m not afraid,” said Emily.</p>
        <p>But she was. She knew nothing about cows; still,
            she was determined that the Murrays should not suspect
            a Starr was scared. So, her heart beating like a trip-hammer,
            she sallied valiantly forth and found that what
            Aunt Laura had said was true and cows were not such
            ferocious animals after all. They went gravely on ahead
            and she had only to follow, through the old orchard and
            then through the scrub maple growth beyond, along a
            twisted ferny path where the Wind Woman was purring
            and peeping around the maple clumps.</p>
        <p>Emily loitered by the pasture gate until her eager eyes
            had taken in all the geography of the landscape. The
            old pasture ran before her in a succession of little green
            bosoms right down to the famous Blair Water—an almost
            perfectly round pond, with grassy, sloping, treeless
            margins. Beyond it was the Blair Water valley, filled
            with homesteads, and further out the great sweep of the
            white-capped gulf. It seemed to Emily’s eyes a charming<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_67">67</a></span>
            land of green shadows and blue waters. Down in
            one corner of the pasture, walled off by an old stone
            dyke, was the little private graveyard where the dead-and-gone
            Murrays were buried. Emily wanted to go
            and explore it, but was afraid to trust herself in the
            pasture.</p>
        <p>“I’ll go as soon as I get better acquainted with the
            cows,” she resolved.</p>
        <p>Off to the right, on the crest of a steep little hill,
            covered with young birches and firs, was a house that
            puzzled and intrigued Emily. It was grey and weather-worn,
            but it didn’t look old. It had never been finished;
            the roof was shingled but the sides were not, and the
            windows were boarded over. Why had it never been
            finished? And it was meant to be such a pretty little
            house—a house you could love—a house where there
            would be nice chairs and cozy fires and bookcases and
            lovely, fat, purry cats and unexpected corners; then and
            there she named it the Disappointed House, and many
            an hour thereafter did she spend finishing that house,
            furnishing it as it should be furnished, and inventing the
            proper people and animals to live in it.</p>
        <p>To the left of the pasture field was another house of
            a quite different type—a big, old house, tangled over
            with vines, flat-roofed, with mansard windows, and a
            general air of indifference and neglect about it. A large,
            untidy lawn, overgrown with unpruned shrubs and trees,
            straggled right down to the pond, where enormous willows
            drooped over the water. Emily decided that she
            would ask Cousin Jimmy about these houses when she
            got a good chance.</p>
        <p>She felt that, before she went back, she must slip along
            the pasture fence and explore a certain path which she
            saw entering the grove of spruce and maple further down.
            She did—and found that it led straight into Fairyland,—along
            the bank of a wide, lovely brook—a wild, dear,
            little path with lady-ferns beckoning and blowing along it,<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_68">68</a></span>
            the shyest of elfin June-bells under the firs, and little
            whims of loveliness at every curve. She breathed in the
            tang of fir-balsam and saw the shimmer of gossamers
            high up in the boughs, and everywhere the frolic of elfin
            lights and shadows. Here and there the young maple
            branches interlaced as if to make a screen for dryad
            faces—Emily knew all about dryads, thanks to her father—and
            the great sheets of moss under the trees were meet
            for Titania’s couch.</p>
        <p>“This is one of the places <a id="where" /><ins title="Original has 'were'">where</ins> dreams grow,” said
            Emily happily.</p>
        <p>She wished the path might go on forever, but presently
            it veered away from the brook, and when she had scrambled
            over a mossy, old board fence she found herself in
            the “front-garden” of New Moon, where Cousin Jimmy
            was pruning some spirea bushes.</p>
        <p>“Oh, Cousin Jimmy, I’ve found the dearest little road,”
            said Emily breathlessly.</p>
        <p>“Coming up through Lofty John’s bush?”</p>
        <p>“Isn’t it our bush?” asked Emily, rather disappointed.</p>
        <p>“No, but it ought to be. Fifty years ago Uncle Archibald
            sold that jog of land to Lofty John’s father—old
            Mike Sullivan. He built a little house down near the
            pond and lived there till he quarrelled with Uncle Archibald—which
            wasn’t long, of course. Then he moved his
            house across the road—and Lofty John lives there now.
            Elizabeth has tried to buy the land back from him—she’s
            offered him far more than it’s worth—but Lofty John
            won’t sell—just for spite, seeing that he has a good farm
            of his own and this piece isn’t much good to him. He
            only pastures a few young cattle on it through the
            summer, and what was cleared is all growing up with
            scrub maple. It’s a thorn in Elizabeth’s side and likely
            to be as long as Lofty John nurses his spite.”</p>
        <p>“Why is he called Lofty John?”</p>
        <p>“Because he’s a high and lofty fellow. But never<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_69">69</a></span>
            mind him. I want to show you round my garden, Emily.
            It’s mine. Elizabeth bosses the farm; but she lets me
            run the garden—to make up for pushing me into the
            well.”</p>
        <p>“<em>Did</em> she do that?”</p>
        <p>“Yes. She didn’t mean to, of course. We were just
            children—I was here on a visit—and the men were putting
            a new hood on the well and cleaning it. It was
            open—and we were playing tag around it. I made Elizabeth
            mad—forget what I said—’twasn’t <em>hard</em> to make
            her mad, you understand—and she made to give me a
            bang on the head. I saw it coming—and stepped back
            to get out of the way—and down I went, head first.
            Don’t remember anything more about it. There was
            nothing but mud at the bottom—but my head struck the
            stones at the side. I was took up for dead—my head
            all cut up. Poor Elizabeth was—” Cousin Jimmy
            shook his head, as if to intimate that it was impossible
            to describe how or what poor Elizabeth was. “I got
            about after a while, though—pretty near as good as new.
            Folks say I’ve never been quite right since—but they
            only say that because I’m a poet, and because nothing
            ever worries me. Poets are so scarce in Blair Water
            folks don’t understand them, and most people worry so
            much, they think you’re not right if you don’t worry.”</p>
        <p>“Won’t you recite some of your poetry to me, Cousin
            Jimmy?” asked Emily eagerly.</p>
        <p>“When the spirit moves me I will. It’s no use to ask
            me when the spirit don’t move me.”</p>
        <p>“But how am I to know when the spirit moves you,
            Cousin Jimmy?”</p>
        <p>“I’ll begin of my own accord to recite my compositions.
            But I’ll tell you this—the spirit generally moves me when
            I’m boiling the pigs’ potatoes in the fall. Remember
            that and be around.”</p>
        <p>“Why don’t you write your poetry down?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_70">70</a></span></p>
        <p>“Paper’s too scarce at New Moon. Elizabeth has
            some pet economies and writing paper of any kind is
            one of them.”</p>
        <p>“But haven’t you any money of your own, Cousin
            Jimmy?”</p>
        <p>“Oh, Elizabeth pays me good wages. But she puts all
            my money in the bank and just doles out a few dollars
            to me once in a while. She says I’m not fit to be trusted
            with money. When I came here to work for her she
            paid me my wages at the end of the month and I started
            for Shrewsbury to put it in the bank. Met a tramp on
            the road—a poor, forlorn creature without a cent. I
            gave <em>him</em> the money. Why not? <em>I</em> had a good home
            and a steady job and clothes enough to do me for years.
            I s’pose it was the foolishest thing I ever did—and the
            nicest. But Elizabeth never got over it. <em>She’s</em> managed
            my money ever since. But come you now, and I’ll
            show you my garden before I have to go and sow turnips.”</p>
        <p>The garden was a beautiful place, well worthy Cousin
            Jimmy’s pride. It seemed like a garden where no frost
            could wither or rough wind blow—a garden remembering
            a hundred vanished summers. There was a high
            hedge of clipped spruce all around it, spaced at intervals
            by tall lombardies. The north side was closed in by a
            thick grove of spruce against which a long row of peonies
            grew, their great red blossoms splendid against its darkness.
            One big spruce grew in the center of the garden
            and underneath it was a stone bench, made of flat shore
            stones worn smooth by long polish of wind and wave.
            In the southeast corner was an enormous clump of lilacs,
            trimmed into the semblance of one large drooping-boughed
            tree, gloried over with purple. An old summer house,
            covered with vines, filled the southwest corner. And in
            the northwest corner there was a sun-dial of grey stone,
            placed just where the broad red walk that was bordered
            with striped grass, and picked out with pink conchs, ran<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_71">71</a></span>
            off into Lofty John’s bush. Emily had never seen a sun-dial
            before and hung over it enraptured.</p>
        <p>“Your great-great grandfather, Hugh Murray, had
            that brought out from the Old Country,” said Cousin
            Jimmy. “There isn’t as fine a one in the Maritime
            Provinces. And Uncle George Murray brought those
            conchs from the Indies. He was a sea-captain.”</p>
        <p>Emily looked about her with delight. The garden was
            lovely and the house quite splendid to her childish eyes.
            It had a big front porch with Grecian columns. These
            were thought very elegant in Blair Water, and went far to
            justify the Murray pride. A schoolmaster had said they
            gave the house a classical air. To be sure, the classical
            effect was just now rather smothered in hop vines that
            rioted over the whole porch and hung in pale-green festoons
            above the rows of potted scarlet geraniums that
            flanked the steps.</p>
        <p>Emily’s heart swelled with pride.</p>
        <p>“It’s a noble house,” she said.</p>
        <p>“And what about my garden?” demanded Cousin
            Jimmy jealously.</p>
        <p>“It’s fit for a queen,” said Emily, gravely and sincerely.</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy nodded, well pleased, and then a strange
            sound crept into his voice and an odd look into his eyes.</p>
        <p>“There is a spell woven round this garden. The
            blight shall spare it and the green worm pass it by.
            Drought dares not invade it and the rain comes here
            gently.”</p>
        <p>Emily took an involuntary step backward—she almost
            felt like running away. But now Cousin Jimmy was
            himself again.</p>
        <p>“Isn’t this grass about the sun-dial like green velvet?
            I’ve taken some pains with it, I can tell you. You make
            yourself at home in this garden.” Cousin Jimmy made
            a splendid gesture. “I confer the freedom of it upon
            you. Good-luck to you, and may you find the Lost
            Diamond.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_72">72</a></span></p>
        <p>“The Lost Diamond?” said Emily wonderingly. What
            fascinating thing was this?</p>
        <p>“Never hear the story? I’ll tell it to-morrow—Sunday’s
            lazy day at New Moon. I must get off to my
            turnips now or I’ll have Elizabeth out looking at me. She
            won’t say anything—she’ll just <em>look</em>. Ever seen the real
            Murray look?”</p>
        <p>“I guess I saw it when Aunt Ruth pulled me out from
            under the table,” said Emily ruefully.</p>
        <p>“No—no. That was the Ruth Dutton look—spite and
            malice and all uncharitableness. I hate Ruth Dutton.
            She laughs at my poetry—not that she ever hears any of
            it. The spirit never moves when Ruth is around.
            Dunno where they got her. Elizabeth is a crank but
            she’s sound as a nut, and Laura’s a saint. But Ruth’s
            worm-eaten. As for the Murray look, you’ll know it
            when you see it. It’s as well-known as the Murray pride.
            We’re a darn queer lot—but we’re the finest people ever
            happened. I’ll tell you all about us to-morrow.”</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy kept his promise while the aunts were
            away at church. It had been decided in family conclave
            that Emily was not to go to church that day.</p>
        <p>“She has nothing suitable to wear,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
            “By next Sunday we will have her white dress
            ready.”</p>
        <p>Emily was disappointed that she was not to go to
            church. She had always found church very interesting
            on the rare occasions when she got there. It had been
            too far at Maywood for her father to walk but sometimes
            Ellen Greene’s brother had taken her and Ellen.</p>
        <p>“Do you think, Aunt Elizabeth,” she said wistfully,
            “that God would be much offended if I wore my black
            dress to church? Of course it’s cheap—I think
            Ellen Greene paid for it herself—but it covers me all
            up.”</p>
        <p>“Little girls who do not understand things should hold
            their tongues,” said Aunt Elizabeth. “I do not choose<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_73">73</a></span>
            that Blair Water people should see my niece in such a
            dress as that wretched black merino. And if Ellen
            Greene paid for it we must repay her. You should have
            told us that before we came away from Maywood. No,
            you are not going to church to-day. You can wear the
            black dress to school to-morrow. We can cover it up
            with an apron.”</p>
        <p>Emily resigned herself with a sigh of disappointment
            to staying home; but it was very pleasant after all.
            Cousin Jimmy took her for a walk to the pond, showed
            her the graveyard and opened the book of yesterday for
            her.</p>
        <p>“Why are all the Murrays buried here?” asked Emily.
            “Is it really because they are too good to be buried with
            common people?”</p>
        <p>“No—no, pussy. We don’t carry our pride as far as
            <em>that</em>. When old Hugh Murray settled at New Moon
            there was nothing much but woods for miles and no
            graveyards nearer than Charlottetown. That’s why the
            old Murrays were buried here—and later on we kept it
            up because we wanted to lie with our own, here on the
            green, green banks of the old Blair Water.”
        </p>
        <p>“That sounds like a line out of a poem, Cousin
            Jimmy,” said Emily.</p>
        <p>“So it is—out of one of my poems.”</p>
        <p>“I kind of like the idea of a ’sclusive burying-ground
            like this,” said Emily decidedly, looking around her approvingly
            at the velvet grass sloping down to the fairy-blue
            pond, the neat walks, the well-kept graves.</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy chuckled.</p>
        <p>“And yet they say you ain’t a Murray,” he said.
            “Murray and Byrd and Starr—and a dash of Shipley to
            boot, or Cousin Jimmy Murray is much mistaken.”</p>
        <p>“Shipley?”</p>
        <p>“Yes—Hugh Murray’s wife—your great-great-grandmother—was
            a Shipley—an Englishwoman. Ever hear
            of how the Murrays came to New Moon?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_74">74</a></span></p>
        <p>“No.”</p>
        <p>“They were bound for Quebec—hadn’t any notion of
            coming to P. E. I. They had a long rough voyage and
            water got scarce, so the captain of the <i>New Moon</i> put in
            here to get some. Mary Murray had nearly died of sea-sickness
            coming out—never seemed to get her sea-legs—so
            the captain, being sorry for her, told her she could go
            ashore with the men and feel solid ground under her for
            an hour or so. Very gladly she went and when she got
            to shore she said, ‘Here I stay.’ And stay she did;
            nothing could budge her; old Hugh—he was young Hugh
            then, of course—coaxed and stormed and raged and
            argued—and even cried, I’ve been told—but Mary
            wouldn’t be moved. In the end he gave in and had his
            belongings landed and stayed, too. So that is how the
            Murrays came to P. E. Island.”</p>
        <p>“I’m glad it happened like that,” said Emily.</p>
        <p>“So was old Hugh in the long run. And yet it rankled,
            Emily—it rankled. He never forgave his wife with a
            whole heart. Her grave is over there in the corner—that
            one with the flat red stone. Go you and look at what he
            had put on it.”</p>
        <p>Emily ran curiously over. The big flat stone was inscribed
            with one of the long, discursive epitaphs of an
            older day. But beneath the epitaph was no scriptural
            verse or pious psalm. Clear and distinct, in spite of age
            and lichen, ran the line, “Here I stay.”</p>
        <p>“<em>That’s</em> how he got even with her,” said Cousin Jimmy.
            “He was a good husband to her—and she was a good
            wife and bore him a fine family—and he never was the
            same after her death. But that rankled in him until it
            had to come out.”</p>
        <p>Emily gave a little shiver. Somehow, the idea of that
            grim old ancestor with his undying grudge against his
            nearest and dearest was rather terrifying.</p>
        <p>“I’m glad I’m only <em>half</em> Murray,” she said to herself.<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_75">75</a></span>
            Aloud—“Father told me it was a Murray tradition not
            to carry spite past the grave.”</p>
        <p>“So ’tis now—but it took its rise from this very thing.
            His family were so horrified at it, you see. It made considerable
            of a scandal. Some folks twisted it round to
            mean that old Hugh didn’t believe in the resurrection, and
            there was talk of the session taking it up, but after a
            while the talk died away.”</p>
        <p>Emily skipped over to another lichen-grown stone.</p>
        <p>“Elizabeth Burnley—who was she, Cousin Jimmy?”</p>
        <p>“Old William Murray’s wife. He was Hugh’s
            brother, and came out here five years after Hugh did.
            His wife was a great beauty and had been a belle in the
            Old Country. She didn’t like the P. E. Island woods.
            She was homesick, Emily—scandalous homesick. For
            weeks after she came here she wouldn’t take off her
            bonnet—just walked the floor in it, demanding to be
            taken back home.”</p>
        <p>“Didn’t she take it off when she went to bed?” asked
            Emily.</p>
        <p>“Dunno if she did go to bed. Anyway, William
            wouldn’t take her back home so in time she took off her
            bonnet and resigned herself. Her daughter married
            Hugh’s son, so Elizabeth was your great-great-grandmother.”</p>
        <p>Emily looked down at the sunken green grave and
            wondered if any homesick dreams haunted Elizabeth
            Burnley’s slumber of a hundred years.</p>
        <p>“It’s dreadful to be homesick—<em>I</em> know,” she thought
            sympathetically.</p>
        <p>“Little Stephen Murray is buried over there,” said
            Cousin Jimmy. “His was the first marble stone in the
            burying-ground. He was your grandfather’s brother—died
            when he was twelve. He has,” said Cousin Jimmy
            solemnly, “become a Murray tradition.”</p>
        <p>“Why?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_76">76</a></span></p>
        <p>“He was so beautiful and clever and good. He hadn’t
            a fault—so of course he couldn’t live. They say there
            never was such a handsome child in the connection. And
            lovable—everybody loved him. He has been dead for
            ninety years—not a Murray living to-day ever saw him—and
            yet we talk about him at family gatherings—he’s
            more real than lots of living people. So you see, Emily,
            he must have been an extraordinary child—but it ended
            in that—” Cousin Jimmy waved his hand towards the
            grassy grave and the white, prim headstone.</p>
        <p>“I wonder,” thought Emily, “if any one will remember
            <em>me</em> ninety years after I’m dead.”
        </p>
        <p>“This old yard is nearly full,” reflected Cousin Jimmy.
            “There’s just room in yonder corner for Elizabeth and
            Laura—and me. None for you, Emily.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t want to be buried here,” flashed Emily. “I
            think it’s splendid to have a graveyard like this in the
            family—but <em>I</em> am going to be buried in Charlottetown
            graveyard with Father and Mother. But there’s one
            thing worries me Cousin Jimmy, do <em>you</em> think I’m likely
            to die of consumption?”</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy looked judicially down into her eyes.</p>
        <p>“No,” he said, “no, Miss Puss. You’ve got enough
            life in <em>you</em> to carry you far. You aren’t meant for
            death.”</p>
        <p>“I feel that, too,” said Emily, nodding. “And now,
            Cousin Jimmy, <em>why</em> is that house over there disappointed?”</p>
        <p>“Which one?—oh, Fred Clifford’s house. Fred Clifford
            began to build that house thirty years ago. He was
            to be married and his lady picked out the plan. And
            when the house was just as far along as you see she jilted
            him, Emily—right in the face of day she jilted him.
            Never another nail was driven in the house. Fred went
            out to British Columbia. He’s living there yet—married
            and happy. But he won’t sell that lot to any one—so I
            reckon he feels the sting yet.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_77">77</a></span></p>
        <p>“I’m so sorry for that house. I <em>wish</em> it had been
            finished. It <em>wants</em> to be—even yet it <em>wants</em> to be.”</p>
        <p>“Well, I reckon it never will. Fred had a bit of
            Shipley in him, too, you see. One of old Hugh’s girls
            was his grandmother. And Doctor Burnley up there in
            the big grey house has more than a bit.”</p>
        <p>“Is he a relation of ours, too, Cousin Jimmy?”</p>
        <p>“Forty-second cousin. Way back he had a cousin of
            Mary Shipley’s for a great-something. That was in the
            Old Country—his forebears came out here after we did.
            He’s a good doctor but an odd stick—odder by far than
            I am, Emily, and yet nobody ever says he’s not all there.
            Can you account for that? <em>He</em> doesn’t believe in God—and
            <em>I</em> am not such a fool as that.”
        </p>
        <p>“Not in <em>any</em> God?”</p>
        <p>“Not in any God. He’s an infidel, Emily. And
            he’s bringing his little girl up the same way, which <em>I</em>
            think is a shame, Emily,” said Cousin Jimmy confidentially.</p>
        <p>“Doesn’t her mother teach her things?”</p>
        <p>“Her mother is—dead,” answered Cousin Jimmy, with
            a little odd hesitation. “Dead these ten years,” he added
            in a firmer tone. “Ilse Burnley is a great girl—hair like
            daffodils and eyes like yellow diamonds.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, Cousin Jimmy, you promised you’d tell me about
            the Lost Diamond,” cried Emily eagerly.</p>
        <p>“To be sure—to be sure. Well, it’s there—somewhere
            in or about the old summer-house, Emily. Fifty
            years ago Edward Murray and his wife came here from
            Kingsport for a visit. A great lady she was, and wearing
            silks and diamonds like a queen, though no beauty. She
            had a ring on with a stone in it that cost two hundred
            pounds, Emily. That was a big lot of money to be wearing
            on one wee woman-finger, wasn’t it? It sparkled on
            her white hand as she held her dress going up the steps of
            the summer house; but when she came down the steps it
            was gone.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_78">78</a></span></p>
        <p>“And was it <em>never</em> found?” asked Emily breathlessly.</p>
        <p>“Never—and for no lack of searching. Edward
            Murray wanted to have the house pulled down—but
            Uncle Archibald wouldn’t hear of it—because he had
            built it for his bride. The two brothers quarrelled over
            it and were never good friends again. Everybody in the
            connection has taken a spell hunting for the diamond.
            Most folks think it fell out of the summer house among
            the flowers or shrubs. But I know better, Emily. I
            know Miriam Murray’s diamond is somewhere about
            that old house yet. On moonlit nights, Emily, I’ve seen
            it glinting—glinting and beckoning. But never in the
            same place—and when you go to it—it’s gone, and you
            see it laughing at you from somewhere else.”</p>
        <p>Again there was that eerie, indefinable something in
            Cousin Jimmy’s voice or look that gave Emily a sudden
            crinkly feeling in her spine. But she loved the way he
            talked to her, as if she were grown-up; and she loved the
            beautiful land around her; and, in spite of the ache for
            her father and the house in the hollow which persisted
            all the time and hurt her so much at night that her pillow
            was wet with secret tears, she was beginning to be a little
            glad again in sunset and bird song and early white stars,
            in moonlit nights and singing winds. She knew life was
            going to be wonderful here—wonderful and interesting,
            what with out-door cook-houses and cream-girdled dairies
            and pond paths and sun-dials, and Lost Diamonds, and
            Disappointed Houses and men who didn’t believe in <em>any</em>
            God—not even Ellen Greene’s God. Emily hoped she
            would soon see Dr. Burnley. She was very curious to
            see what an infidel looked like. And she had already
            quite made up her mind that she would find the Lost
            Diamond.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_79">79</a></span>
            <h2><a id="viii" />CHAPTER VIII<br />
                <span>Trial by Fire</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">A</span>UNT ELIZABETH drove Emily to school the next
            morning. Aunt Laura had thought that, since
            there was only a month before vacation, it was not worth
            while for Emily to “start school.” But Aunt Elizabeth
            did not yet feel comfortable with a small niece skipping
            around New Moon, poking into everything insatiably,
            and was resolved that Emily must go to school to get her
            out of the way. Emily herself, always avid for new experiences,
            was quite keen to go, but for all that she was
            seething with rebellion as they drove along. Aunt Elizabeth
            had produced a terrible gingham apron and an equally
            terrible gingham sunbonnet from somewhere in the New
            Moon garret, and made Emily put them on. The apron
            was a long sack-like garment, high in the neck, with
            <em>sleeves</em>. Those sleeves were the crowning indignity.
            Emily had never seen any little girl wearing an apron
            with sleeves. She rebelled to the point of tears over
            wearing it, but Aunt Elizabeth was not going to have any
            nonsense. Emily saw the Murray look then; and when
            she saw it she buttoned her rebellious feelings tightly up
            in her soul and let Aunt Elizabeth put the apron on
            her.
        </p>
        <p>“It was one of your mother’s aprons when she was a
            little girl, Emily,” said Aunt Laura comfortingly, and
            rather sentimentally.</p>
        <p>“Then,” said Emily, uncomforted and unsentimental,
            “I don’t wonder she ran away with Father when she
            grew up.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth finished buttoning the apron and gave
            Emily a none too gentle push away from her.</p>
        <p>“Put on your sunbonnet,” she ordered.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_80">80</a></span></p>
        <p>“Oh, please, Aunt Elizabeth, don’t make me wear that
            horrid thing.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth, wasting no further words, picked up
            the bonnet and tied it on Emily’s head. Emily had to
            yield. But from the depths of the sunbonnet issued a
            voice, defiant though tremulous.</p>
        <p>“Anyway, Aunt Elizabeth, you can’t boss God,” it said.</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth was too cross to speak all the way to
            the schoolhouse. She introduced Emily to Miss Brownell,
            and drove away. School was already “in,” so Emily
            hung her sunbonnet on the porch nail and went to the
            desk Miss Brownell assigned her. She had already made
            up her mind that she did not like Miss Brownell and
            never would like her.</p>
        <p>Miss Brownell had the reputation in Blair Water of
            being a fine teacher—due mainly to the fact that she was
            a strict disciplinarian and kept excellent “order.” She
            was a thin, middle-aged person with a colourless face,
            prominent teeth, most of which she showed when she
            laughed, and cold, watchful grey eyes—colder even than
            Aunt Ruth’s. Emily felt as if those merciless agate eyes
            saw clean through her to the core of her sensitive little
            soul. Emily could be fearless enough on occasion; but
            in the presence of a nature which she instinctively felt to
            be hostile to hers she shrank away in something that was
            more repulsion than fear.</p>
        <p>She was a target for curious glances all the morning.
            The Blair Water school was large and there were at least
            twenty little girls of about her own age. Emily looked
            back curiously at them all and thought the way they whispered
            to each other behind hands and books when they
            looked at her very ill-mannered. She felt suddenly unhappy
            and homesick and lonesome—she wanted her father
            and her old home and the dear things she loved.</p>
        <p>“The New Moon girl is crying,” whispered a black-eyed
            girl across the aisle. And then came a cruel little
            giggle.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_81">81</a></span></p>
        <p>“What is the matter with you, Emily?” said Miss
            Brownell suddenly and accusingly.</p>
        <p>Emily was silent. She could not tell Miss Brownell
            what was the matter with her—especially when Miss
            Brownell used such a tone.</p>
        <p>“When I ask one of my pupils a question, Emily, I am
            accustomed to having an answer. Why are you crying?”</p>
        <p>There was another giggle from across the aisle. Emily
            lifted miserable eyes and in her extremity fell back on a
            phrase of her father’s.</p>
        <p>“It is a matter that concerns only myself,” she said.</p>
        <p>A red spot suddenly appeared in Miss Brownell’s
            sallow cheek. Her eyes gleamed with cold fire.</p>
        <p>“You will remain in during recess as a punishment for
            your impertinence,” she said—but she left Emily alone
            the rest of the day.</p>
        <p>Emily did not in the least mind staying in at recess, for,
            acutely sensitive to her environment as she was, she
            realized that, for some reason she could not fathom, the
            atmosphere of the school was antagonistic. The glances
            cast at her were not only curious but ill-natured. She
            did not want to go out to the playground with those girls.
            She did not want to go to school in Blair Water. But
            she would not cry any more. She sat erect and kept her
            eyes on her book. Suddenly a soft, malignant hiss came
            across the aisle.</p>
        <p>“Miss Pridey—Miss Pridey!”</p>
        <p>Emily looked across at the girl. Large, steady, purplish-grey
            eyes gazed into beady, twinkling, black ones—gazed
            unquailingly—with something in them that cowed
            and compelled. The black eyes wavered and fell, their
            owner covering her retreat with another giggle and toss
            of her short braid of hair.</p>
        <p>“I can master <em>her</em>,” thought Emily, with a thrill of
            triumph.</p>
        <p>But there is strength in numbers and at noon hour
            Emily found herself standing alone on the playground<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_82">82</a></span>
            facing a crowd of unfriendly faces. Children can be the
            most cruel creatures alive. They have the herd instinct
            of prejudice against any outsider, and they are merciless
            in its indulgence. Emily was a stranger and one of the
            proud Murrays—two counts against her. And there
            was about her, small and ginghamed and sunbonneted as
            she was, a certain reserve and dignity and fineness that
            they resented. And they resented the level way she looked
            at them, with that disdainful face under cloudy black
            hair, instead of being shy and drooping as became an
            interloper on probation.</p>
        <p>“You are a proud one,” said Black-eyes. “Oh, my,
            you may have buttoned boots, but you are living on
            charity.”</p>
        <p>Emily had not wanted to put on the buttoned boots.
            She wanted to go barefoot as she had always done in
            summer. But Aunt Elizabeth had told her that no child
            from New Moon had ever gone barefoot to school.</p>
        <p>“Oh, just look at the baby apron,” laughed another
            girl, with a head of chestnut curls.</p>
        <p>Now Emily flushed. This was indeed the vulnerable
            point in her armour. Delighted at her success in drawing
            blood the curled one tried again.</p>
        <p>“Is that your grandmother’s sunbonnet?”</p>
        <p>There was a chorus of giggles.</p>
        <p>“Oh, she wears a sunbonnet to save her complexion,”
            said a bigger girl. “That’s the Murray pride. The
            Murrays are rotten with pride, my mother says.”</p>
        <p>“You’re awful ugly,” said a fat, squat little miss, nearly
            as broad as she was long. “Your ears look like a cat’s.”</p>
        <p>“You needn’t be so proud,” said Black-eyes. “Your
            kitchen ceiling isn’t plastered even.”</p>
        <p>“And your Cousin Jimmy is an idiot,” said Chestnut-curls.</p>
        <p>“He isn’t!” cried Emily. “He has more sense than
            any of you. You can say what you like about me but
            you are not going to <em>insult my family</em>. If you say one<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_83">83</a></span>
            more word about them I’ll look you over with the evil
            eye.”</p>
        <p>Nobody understood what this threat meant, but that
            made it all the more effective. It produced a brief silence.
            Then the baiting began again in a different form.</p>
        <p>“Can you sing?” asked a thin, freckled girl, who yet
            contrived to be very pretty in spite of thinness and
            freckles.</p>
        <p>“No,” said Emily.</p>
        <p>“Can you dance?”</p>
        <p>“No.”</p>
        <p>“Can you sew?”</p>
        <p>“No.”</p>
        <p>“Can you cook?”</p>
        <p>“No.”</p>
        <p>“Can you knit lace?”</p>
        <p>“No.”</p>
        <p>“Can you crochet?”</p>
        <p>“No.”</p>
        <p>“Then what <em>can</em> you do?” said the freckled-one in a
            contemptuous tone.</p>
        <p>“I can write poetry,” said Emily, without in the least
            meaning to say it. But at that instant she knew she <em>could</em>
            write poetry. And with this queer unreasonable conviction
            came—the flash! Right there, surrounded by hostility
            and suspicion, fighting alone for her standing,
            without backing or advantage, came the wonderful
            moment when soul seemed to cast aside the bonds of flesh
            and spring upward to the stars. The rapture and delight
            on Emily’s face amazed and enraged her foes. They
            thought it a manifestation of Murray pride in an uncommon
            accomplishment.</p>
        <p>“You lie,” said Black-eyes bluntly.</p>
        <p>“A Starr does not lie,” retorted Emily. The flash was
            gone, but its uplift remained. She looked them all over
            with a cool detachment that quelled them temporarily.</p>
        <p>“Why don’t you like me?” she asked directly.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_84">84</a></span></p>
        <p>There was no reply. Emily looked straight at Chestnut-curls
            and repeated her question. Chestnut-curls felt
            herself compelled to answer it.</p>
        <p>“Because you ain’t a bit like us,” she muttered.</p>
        <p>“I wouldn’t want to be,” said Emily scornfully.</p>
        <p>“Oh, my, you are one of the Chosen People,” mocked
            Black-eyes.</p>
        <p>“Of course I am,” retorted Emily.</p>
        <p>She walked away to the schoolhouse, conqueror in
            that battle.</p>
        <p>But the forces against her were not so easily cowed.
            There was much whispering and plotting after she had
            gone in, a conference with some of the boys, and a
            handing over of bedizened pencils and chews of gum for
            value received.</p>
        <p>An agreeable sense of victory and the afterglow of the
            flash carried Emily through the afternoon in spite of the
            fact that Miss Brownell ridiculed her for her mistakes
            in spelling. Miss Brownell was very fond of ridiculing
            her pupils. All the girls in the class giggled except one
            who had not been there in the morning and was consequently
            at the tail. Emily had been wondering who she
            was. She was as unlike the rest of the girls as Emily
            herself, but in a totally different style. She was tall,
            oddly dressed in an overlong dress of faded, striped print,
            and barefooted. Her thick hair, cut short, fluffed out
            all around her head in a bushy wave that seemed to be of
            brilliant spun gold; and her glowing eyes were of a brown
            so light and translucent as to be almost amber. Her
            mouth was large, and she had a saucy, pronounced chin.
            Pretty she might not be called, but her face was so vivid
            and mobile that Emily could not drag her fascinated eyes
            from it. And she was the only girl in class who did not,
            sometime through the lesson, get a barb of sarcasm from
            Miss Brownell, though she made as many mistakes as
            the rest of them.</p>
        <p>At recess one of the girls came up to Emily with a box<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_85">85</a></span>
            in her hand. Emily knew that she was Rhoda Stuart
            and thought her very pretty and sweet. Rhoda had been
            in the crowd around her at the noon hour but she had not
            said anything. She was dressed in crispy pink gingham;
            she had smooth, lustrous braids of sugar-brown hair, big
            blue eyes, a rose-bud mouth, doll-like features and a
            sweet voice. If Miss Brownell could be said to have a
            favourite it was Rhoda Stuart, and she seemed generally
            popular in her own set and much petted by the older girls.</p>
        <p>“Here is a present for you,” she said sweetly.</p>
        <p>Emily took the box unsuspectingly. Rhoda’s smile
            would have disarmed any suspicion. For a moment
            Emily was happily anticipant as she removed the cover.
            Then with a shriek she flung the box from her, and stood
            pale and trembling from head to foot. There was a
            snake in the box—whether dead or alive she did not know
            and did not care. For any snake Emily had a horror
            and repulsion she could not overcome. The very sight
            of one almost paralyzed her.</p>
        <p>A chorus of giggles ran around the porch.</p>
        <p>“Before I’d be so scared of an old dead snake!”
            scoffed Black-eyes.</p>
        <p>“Can you write poetry about <em>that</em>?” giggled Chestnut-curls.</p>
        <p>“I <em>hate</em> you—I hate you!” cried Emily. “You are
            mean, hateful girls!”</p>
        <p>“Calling names isn’t ladylike,” said the Freckled-one.
            “I thought a Murray would be too grand for that.”</p>
        <p>“If you come to school to-morrow, <em>Miss</em> Starr,” said
            Black-eyes deliberately, “we are going to take that snake
            and put it around your neck.”</p>
        <p>“Let me see you do it!” cried a clear, ringing voice.
            Into their midst with a bound came the girl with amber
            eyes and short hair. “Just let me <em>see</em> you do it, Jennie
            Strang!”</p>
        <p>“This isn’t any of your business, Ilse Burnley,” muttered
            Jennie, sullenly.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_86">86</a></span></p>
        <p>“Oh, isn’t it? Don’t you sass me, Piggy-eyes.” Ilse
            walked up to the retreating Jennie and shook a sunburned
            fist in her face. “If I catch you teasing Emily Starr to-morrow
            with that snake again I’ll take <em>it</em> by the tail and
            <em>you</em> by <em>your</em> tail, and slash you across the face with it.
            Mind that, Piggy-eyes. Now you go and pick up that
            precious snake of yours and throw it down on the ash
            pile.”
        </p>
        <p>Jennie actually went and did it. Ilse faced the others.</p>
        <p>“Clear out, all of you, and leave the New Moon girl
            alone after this,” she said. “If I hear of any more meddling
            and sneaking I’ll slit your throats, and rip out your
            hearts and tear your eyes out. Yes, and I’ll cut off your
            ears and wear them pinned on my dress!”</p>
        <p>Cowed by these ferocious threats, or by something in
            Ilse’s personality, Emily’s persecutors drifted away. Ilse
            turned to Emily.</p>
        <p>“Don’t mind them,” she said contemptuously. “They’re
            jealous of you, that’s all—jealous because you live at
            New Moon and ride in a fringed top-buggy and wear
            buttoned boots. You smack their mugs if they give you
            any more of their jaw.”</p>
        <p>Ilse vaulted the fence and tore off into the maple bush
            without another glance at Emily. Only Rhoda Stuart
            remained.</p>
        <p>“Emily, I’m awful sorry,” she said, rolling her big
            blue eyes appealingly. “I didn’t know there was a snake
            in that box, cross my heart I didn’t. The girls just told
            me it was a present for you. You’re not mad at me, are
            you? Because I like you.”</p>
        <p>Emily had been “mad” and hurt and outraged. But
            this little bit of friendliness melted her instantly. In a
            moment she and Rhoda had their arms around each other,
            parading across the playground.</p>
        <p>“I’m going to ask Miss Brownell to let you sit with
            me,” said Rhoda. “I used to sit with Annie Gregg but<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_87">87</a></span>
            she’s moved away. You’d like to sit with me, wouldn’t
            you?”</p>
        <p>“I’d love it,” said Emily warmly. She was as happy
            as she had been miserable. Here was the friend of her
            dreams. Already she worshipped Rhoda.</p>
        <p>“We <em>ought</em> to sit together,” said Rhoda importantly.
            “We belong to the two best families in Blair Water.
            Do you know that if my father had his rights he would
            be on the throne of England?”</p>
        <p>“England!” said Emily, too amazed to be anything
            but an echo.</p>
        <p>“Yes. We are descended from the kings of Scotland,”
            said Rhoda. “So of course we don’t ’sociate with everybody.
            My father keeps store and I’m taking music
            lessons. Is your Aunt Elizabeth going to give you
            music lessons?”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know.”</p>
        <p>“She ought to. She is very rich, isn’t she?”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know,” said Emily again. She wished Rhoda
            would not ask such questions. Emily thought it was
            hardly good manners. But surely a descendant of the
            Stuart kings ought to know the rules of breeding, if anybody
            did.</p>
        <p>“She’s got an awful temper, hasn’t she?” asked Rhoda.</p>
        <p>“No, she hasn’t!” cried Emily.</p>
        <p>“Well, she nearly killed your Cousin Jimmy in one of
            her rages,” said Rhoda. “That’s true—Mother told me.
            Why doesn’t your Aunt Laura get married? Has she
            got a beau? What wages does your Aunt Elizabeth pay
            your Cousin Jimmy?”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know.”</p>
        <p>“Well,” said Rhoda, rather disappointedly. “I suppose
            you haven’t been at New Moon long enough to find
            things out. But it must be very different from what
            you’ve been used to, I guess. Your father was as poor
            as a church mouse, wasn’t he?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_88">88</a></span></p>
        <p>“My father was a very, <em>very</em> rich man,” said Emily
            deliberately.</p>
        <p>Rhoda stared.</p>
        <p>“I thought he hadn’t a cent.”</p>
        <p>“Neither he had. But people can be rich without
            money.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t see how. But anyhow, <em>you’ll</em> be rich some
            day—your Aunt Elizabeth will likely leave you all her
            money, Mother says. So I don’t care if you <em>are</em> living
            on charity—I love you and I’m going to stick up for you.
            Have you got a beau, Emily?”</p>
        <p>“No,” cried Emily, blushing violently and quite scandalized
            at the idea. “Why, I’m only eleven.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, everybody in our class has a beau. Mine is
            Teddy Kent. I shook hands with him after I’d counted
            nine stars for nine nights without missing a night. If
            you do that the first boy you shake hands with afterwards
            is to be your beau. But it’s awful hard to do. It took
            me all winter. Teddy wasn’t in school to-day—he’s been
            sick all June. He’s the best-looking boy in Blair Water.
            You’ll have to have a beau, too, Emily.”</p>
        <p>“I won’t,” declared Emily angrily. “I don’t know a
            thing about beaux and I won’t have one.”</p>
        <p>Rhoda tossed her head.</p>
        <p>“Oh, I s’pose you think there’s nobody good enough
            for you, living at New Moon. Well, you won’t be able
            to play Clap-in-and-clap-out if you haven’t a beau.”</p>
        <p>Emily knew nothing of the mysteries of Clap-in-and-clap-out,
            and didn’t care. Anyway, she wasn’t going to
            have a beau and she repeated this in such decided tones
            that Rhoda deemed it wise to drop the subject.</p>
        <p>Emily was rather glad when the bell rang. Miss
            Brownell granted Rhoda’s request quite graciously and
            Emily transferred her goods and chattels to Rhoda’s seat.
            Rhoda whispered a good deal during the last hour and
            Emily got scolded for it but did not mind.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_89">89</a></span></p>
        <p>“I’m going to have a birthday party the first week in
            July, and I’m going to invite you, if your aunts will let
            you come. I’m not going to have Ilse Burnley though.”</p>
        <p>“Don’t you like her?”</p>
        <p>“No. She’s an awful tomboy. And then her father
            is an infidel. And so’s she. She always spells ‘God’
            with a little ‘g’ in her dictation. Miss Brownell scolds
            her for it but she does it right along. Miss Brownell
            won’t whip <em>her</em> because she’s setting her cap for Dr.
            Burnley. But Ma says she won’t get him because he
            hates women. <em>I</em> don’t think it’s proper to ’sociate with
            such people. Ilse is an awful wild queer girl and has
            an awful temper. So has her father. She doesn’t chum
            with anybody. Isn’t it ridic’lus the way she wears her
            hair? <em>You</em> ought to have a bang, Emily. They’re all
            the rage and you’d look well with one because you’ve
            such a high forehead. It would make a real beauty of
            you. My, but you have lovely hair, and your hands are
            just lovely. All the Murrays have pretty hands. And
            you have the <em>sweetest</em> eyes, Emily.”</p>
        <p>Emily had never received so many compliments in her
            life. Rhoda laid flattery on with a trowel. Her head
            was quite turned and she went home from school determined
            to ask Aunt Elizabeth to cut her hair in a bang.
            If it would make a beauty of her it must be compassed
            somehow. And she would also ask Aunt Elizabeth if
            she might wear her Venetian beads to school next day.</p>
        <p>“The other girls may <em>respect</em> me more then,” she
            thought.</p>
        <p>She was alone from the crossroads, where she had
            parted company with Rhoda, and she reviewed the events
            of the day with a feeling that, after all, she had kept the
            Starr flag flying, except for a temporary reverse in the
            matter of the snake. School was very different from
            what she had expected it to be, but that was the way in
            life, she had heard Ellen Greene say, and you just had
            to make the best of it. Rhoda was a darling; and there<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_90">90</a></span>
            was something about Ilse Burnley that one liked; and
            as for the rest of the girls Emily got square with them
            by pretending she saw them all being hanged in a row
            for frightening her to death with a snake, and felt no
            more resentment towards them, although some of the
            things that had been said to her rankled bitterly in her
            heart for many a day. She had no father to tell them
            to, and no account book to write them out in, so she
            could not exorcise them.</p>
        <p>She had no speedy chance to ask for a bang, for there
            was company at New Moon and her aunts were busy
            getting ready an elaborate supper. But when the preserves
            were brought on Emily snatched the opportunity
            of a lull in the older conversation.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth,” she said, “can I have a bang?”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth looked her disdain.</p>
        <p>“No,” she said, “I do not approve of bangs. Of all
            the silly fashions that have come in now-a-days, bangs
            are the silliest.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, Aunt Elizabeth, <em>do</em> let me have a bang. It would
            make a beauty of me,—Rhoda says so.”</p>
        <p>“It would take a good deal more than a bang to do
            that, Emily. We will not have bangs at New Moon—except
            on the Molly cows. <em>They</em> are the only creatures
            that should wear bangs.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth smiled triumphantly around the table—Aunt
            Elizabeth <em>did</em> smile sometimes when she thought
            she had silenced some small person by exquisite ridicule.
            Emily understood that it was no use to hope for bangs.
            Loveliness did not lie that way for her. It was mean of
            Aunt Elizabeth—mean. She heaved a sigh of disappointment
            and dismissed the idea for the present. There
            was something else she wanted to know.</p>
        <p>“Why doesn’t Ilse Burnley’s father believe in God?”
            she asked.</p>
        <p>“’Cause of the trick her mother played him,” said
            Mr. Slade, with a chuckle. Mr. Slade was a fat, jolly-looking<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_91">91</a></span>
            old man with bushy hair and whiskers. He had
            already said some things Emily could not understand
            and which had seemed greatly to embarrass his very
            lady-like wife.</p>
        <p>“What trick did Ilse’s mother play?” asked Emily, all
            agog with interest.</p>
        <p>Now Aunt Laura looked at Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt
            Elizabeth looked at Aunt Laura. Then the latter said:</p>
        <p>“Run out and feed the chickens, Emily.”</p>
        <p>Emily rose with dignity.</p>
        <p>“You might just as well tell me that Ilse’s mother
            isn’t to be talked about and I would obey you. I understand
            <em>perfectly</em> what you mean,” she said as she left the
            table.
        </p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="ix" />CHAPTER IX<br />
                <span>A Special Providence</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">E</span>MILY was sure on that first day at school that she
            would never like it. She must go, she knew, in
            order to get an education and be ready to earn her own
            living; but it would always be what Ellen Greene solemnly
            called “a cross.” Consequently Emily felt quite astonished
            when, after going to school a few days, it dawned
            upon her that she was liking it. To be sure, Miss
            Brownell did not improve on acquaintance; but the other
            girls no longer tormented her—indeed, to her amazement,
            they seemed suddenly to forget all that had happened and
            hailed her as one of themselves. She was admitted to
            the fellowship of the pack and, although in some occasional
            tiff she got a dig about baby aprons and Murray
            pride, there was no more hostility, veiled or open. Besides,
            Emily was quite able to give “digs” herself, as she
            learned more about the girls and their weak points, and
            she could give them with such merciless lucidity and irony<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_92">92</a></span>
            that the others soon learned not to provoke them. Chestnut-curls,
            whose name was Grace Wells, and the Freckled-one,
            whose name was Carrie King, and Jennie Strang
            became quite chummy with her, and Jennie sent chews
            of gum and tissue thumb-papers across the aisle instead
            of giggles. Emily allowed them all to enter the outer
            court of her temple of friendship but only Rhoda was
            admitted to the inner shrine. As for Ilse Burnley, she
            did not appear after that first day. Ilse, so Rhoda said,
            came to school or not, just as she liked. Her father
            never bothered about her. Emily always felt a certain
            hankering to know more of Ilse, but it did not seem
            likely to be gratified.</p>
        <p>Emily was insensibly becoming happy again. Already
            she felt as if she belonged to this old cradle of her family.
            She thought a great deal about the old Murrays; she
            liked to picture them revisiting the glimpses of New
            Moon—Great-grandmother rubbing up her candlesticks
            and making cheeses; Great-aunt Miriam stealing about
            looking for her lost treasure; homesick Great-great-aunt
            Elizabeth stalking about in her bonnet; Captain George,
            the dashing, bronzed sea-captain, coming home with the
            spotted shells of the Indies; Stephen, the beloved of all,
            smiling from its windows; her own mother dreaming of
            Father—they all seemed as real to her as if she had known
            them in life.</p>
        <p>She still had terrible hours when she was overwhelmed
            by grief for her father and when all the splendours of
            New Moon could not stifle the longing for the shabby
            little house in the hollow where they had loved each other
            so. Then Emily fled to some secret corner and cried
            her heart out, emerging with red eyes that always seemed
            to annoy Aunt Elizabeth. Aunt Elizabeth had become
            used to having Emily at New Moon but she had not drawn
            any nearer to the child. This hurt Emily always; but
            Aunt Laura and Cousin Jimmy loved her and she had
            Saucy Sal and Rhoda, fields creamy with clover, soft<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_93">93</a></span>
            dark trees against amber skies, and the madcap music
            the Wind Woman made in the firs behind the barns when
            she blew straight up from the gulf; her days became vivid
            and interesting, full of little pleasures and delights, like
            tiny, opening, golden buds on the tree of life. If she
            could only have had her old yellow account book, or some
            equivalent, she could have been fully content. She missed
            it next to her father, and its enforced burning was something
            for which she held Aunt Elizabeth responsible and
            for which she felt she could never wholly forgive her.
            It did not seem possible to get any substitute. As Cousin
            Jimmy had said, writing paper of any kind was scarce at
            New Moon. Letters were seldom written, and when
            they were a sheet of note-paper sufficed. Emily dared
            not ask Aunt Elizabeth for any. There were times when
            she felt she would burst if she couldn’t write out some
            of the things that came to her. She found a certain
            safety valve in writing on her slate in school; but these
            scribblings had to be rubbed off sooner or later—which
            left Emily with a sense of loss—and there was always the
            danger that Miss Brownell would see them. That, Emily
            felt, would be unendurable. No stranger eyes must behold
            these sacred productions. Sometimes she let Rhoda
            read them, though Rhoda rasped her by giggling over her
            finest flights. Emily thought Rhoda as near perfection
            as a human being could be, but giggling was her fault.</p>
        <p>But there is a destiny which shapes the ends of young
            misses who are born with the itch for writing tingling
            in their baby fingertips, and in the fulness of time this destiny
            gave to Emily the desire of her heart—gave it to her,
            too, on the very day when she most needed it. That
            was the day, the ill-starred day, when Miss Brownell
            elected to show the fifth class, by example as well as
            precept, how the <i>Bugle Song</i> should be read.</p>
        <p>Standing on the platform Miss Brownell, who was not
            devoid of a superficial, elocutionary knack, read those
            three wonderful verses. Emily, who should have been<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_94">94</a></span>
            doing a sum in long division, dropped her pencil and
            listened entranced. She had never heard the <i>Bugle Song</i>
            before—but now she heard it—and <em>saw</em> it—the rose-red
            splendour falling on those storied, snowy summits and
            ruined castles—the lights that never were on land or
            sea streaming over the lakes—she heard the wild echoes
            flying through the purple valleys and the misty passes—the
            mere sound of the words seemed to make an exquisite
            echo in her soul—and when Miss Brownell came to
            “Horns of elf-land faintly blowing” Emily trembled
            with delight. She was snatched out of herself. She
            forgot everything but the magic of that unequalled line—she
            sprang from her seat, knocking her slate to the
            floor with a clatter, she rushed up the aisle, she caught
            Miss Brownell’s arm.</p>
        <p>“Oh, teacher,” she cried with passionate earnestness,
            “read that line over again—oh, read that line over
            again!”</p>
        <p>Miss Brownell, thus suddenly halted in her elocutionary
            display, looked down into a rapt, uplifted face where
            great purplish-grey eyes were shining with the radiance
            of a divine vision—and Miss Brownell was angry.
            Angry with this breach of her strict discipline—angry
            with this <a id="unseemly" /><ins title="Original has 'unseenly'">unseemly</ins> display of interest in a
            third class
            atom whose attention should have been focused on long
            division. Miss Brownell shut her book and shut her
            lips and gave Emily a resounding slap on her face.</p>
        <p>“Go right back to your seat and mind your own business,
            Emily Starr,” said Miss Brownell, her cold eyes
            malignant with her fury.</p>
        <p>Emily, thus dashed to earth, moved back to her seat
            in a daze. Her smitten cheek was crimson, but the wound
            was in her heart. One moment ago in the seventh heaven—and
            now <em>this</em>—pain, humiliation, misunderstanding!
            She could not bear it. What had she done to deserve
            it? She had never been slapped in her life before. The
            degradation and the injustice ate into her soul. She<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_95">95</a></span>
            could not cry—this was “a grief too deep for tears”—she
            went home from school in a suppressed anguish of
            bitterness and shame and resentment—an anguish that
            had no outlet, for she dared not tell her story at New
            Moon. Aunt Elizabeth, she felt sure, would say that
            Miss Brownell had done quite right, and even Aunt
            Laura, kind and sweet as she was, would not understand.
            She would be grieved because Emily had misbehaved
            in school and had had to be punished.</p>
        <p>“Oh, if I could only tell Father all about it!” thought
            Emily.</p>
        <p>She could not eat any supper—she did not think she
            would ever be able to eat again. And oh, how she hated
            that unjust, horrid Miss Brownell! She could never forgive
            her—never! If there were only some way in which
            she could get square with Miss Brownell! Emily, sitting
            small and pale and quiet at the New Moon supper
            table, was a seething volcano of wounded feeling and
            misery and pride—ay, pride! Worse even than the injustice
            was the sting of humiliation over this thing that
            had happened. She, Emily Byrd Starr, on whom no
            hand had ever before been ungently laid, had been slapped
            like a naughty baby before the whole school. Who could
            endure this and live?</p>
        <p>Then destiny stepped in and drew Aunt Laura to the
            sitting-room bookcase to look in its lower compartment
            for a certain letter she wanted to see. She took Emily
            with her to show her a curious old snuff-box that had belonged
            to Hugh Murray, and in rummaging for it lifted
            out a big, flat bundle of dusty paper—paper of a deep
            pink colour in oddly long and narrow sheets.</p>
        <p>“It’s time these old letter-bills were burned,” she said.
            “What a pile of them! They’ve been here gathering
            dust for years and they are no earthly good. Father
            once kept the post-office here at New Moon, you know,
            Emily. The mail came only three times a week then,
            and each day there was one of these long red ‘letter-bills,’<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_96">96</a></span>
            as they were called. Mother always kept them,
            though when once used they were of no further use.
            But I’m going to burn them right away.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, Aunt Laura,” gasped Emily, so torn between desire
            and fear that she could hardly speak. “Oh, don’t
            do that—give them to me—<em>please</em> give them to me.”</p>
        <p>“Why, child, what ever do you want of them?”</p>
        <p>“Oh, Aunty, they have such lovely blank backs for
            writing on. Please, Aunt Laura, it would be a <em>sin</em> to
            burn those letter-bills.”</p>
        <p>“You can have them, dear. Only you’d better not
            let Elizabeth see them.”</p>
        <p>“I won’t—I won’t,” breathed Emily.</p>
        <p>She gathered her precious booty into her arms and
            fairly ran upstairs—and then upstairs again into the garret,
            where she already had her “favourite haunt,” in which
            her uncomfortable habit of thinking of things thousands
            of miles away could not vex Aunt Elizabeth. This was
            the quiet corner of the dormer window, where shadows
            always moved about, softly and swingingly, and beautiful
            mosaics patterned the bare floor. From it one could see
            over the tree-tops right down to the Blair Water. The
            walls were hung around with great bundles of soft fluffy
            rolls, all ready for spinning, and hanks of untwisted yarn.
            Sometimes Aunt Laura spun on the great wheel at the
            other end of the garret and Emily loved the whirr of
            it.</p>
        <p>In the recess of the dormer window she crouched—breathlessly
            she selected a letter-bill and extracted a lead
            pencil from her pocket. An old sheet of cardboard
            served as a desk; she began to write feverishly.</p>
        <p>“Dear Father”—and then she poured out her tale of
            the day—of her rapture and her pain—writing heedlessly
            and intently until the sunset faded into dim, star-litten
            twilight. The chickens went unfed—Cousin Jimmy had
            to go himself for the cows—Saucy Sal got no new milk—Aunt
            Laura had to wash the dishes—what mattered<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_97">97</a></span>
            it? Emily, in the delightful throes of literary composition,
            was lost to all worldly things.</p>
        <p>When she had covered the backs of four letter-bills
            she could see to write no more. But she had emptied
            out her soul and it was once more free from evil passions.
            She even felt curiously indifferent to Miss Brownell.
            Emily folded up her letter-bills and wrote clearly across
            the packet,</p>
        <p class="mb0 center"><em>Mr. Douglas Starr,</em></p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4"><em>On the Road to Heaven.</em></p>
        <p>Then she stepped softly across to an old, worn-out
            sofa in a far corner and knelt down, stowing away her
            letter and her “letter-bills” snugly on a little shelf formed
            by a board nailed across it underneath. Emily had discovered
            this one day when playing in the garret and had
            noted it as a lovely hiding-place for secret documents.
            Nobody would ever come across them there. She had
            writing paper enough to last for months—there must be
            hundreds of those jolly old letter-bills.</p>
        <p>“Oh,” cried Emily, dancing down the garret stairs,
            “I feel as if I was made out of star-dust.”</p>
        <p>Thereafter few evenings passed on which Emily did
            not steal up to the garret and write a letter, long or short,
            to her father. The bitterness died out of her grief.
            Writing to him seemed to bring him so near; and she
            told him everything, with a certain honesty of confession
            that was characteristic of her—her triumphs, her failures,
            her joys, her sorrows, everything went down on the
            letter-bills of a Government which had not been so economical
            of paper as it afterwards became. There was
            fully half a yard of paper in each bill and Emily wrote
            a small hand and made the most of every inch.</p>
        <p>“I like New Moon. It’s so <em>stately</em> and <em>splendid</em> here,”
            she told her father. “And it seems as if we must be
            very aristokratik when we have a sun dyal. I can’t help<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_98">98</a></span>
            feeling proud of it all. I am afraid I have too much
            pride and so I ask God every night to take <em>most</em> of it
            away but not quite all. It is very easy to get a repputation
            for pride in Blair Water school. If you walk
            straight and hold your head up you are a proud one.
            Rhoda is proud, too, because her father ought to be King
            of England. I wonder how Queen Victoria would feel
            if she knew that. It’s very wonderful to have a friend
            who would be a princess if every one had their rites.
            I love Rhoda with all my heart. She is so sweet and
            kind. But I don’t like her giggles. And when I told
            her I could see the school wallpaper small in the air she
            said You lie. It hurt me awfully to have my dearest
            friend say that to me. And it hurt me worse when I
            woke up in the night and thought about it. I had to
            stay awake ever so long, too, because I was tired lying
            on one side and I was afraid to turn over because Aunt
            Elizabeth would think I was figitting.</p>
        <p>“I didn’t dare tell Rhoda about the Wind Woman because
            I suppose that really is a kind of lie, though she
            seems so real to me. I hear her now singing up on the
            roof around the big chimneys. I have no Emily-in-the-glass
            here. The looking-glasses are all too high up in
            the rooms I’ve been in. I’ve never been in the look-out.
            It is always locked. It was Mother’s room and Cousin
            Jimmy says her father locked it up after she ran away
            with you and Aunt Elizabeth keeps it locked still out of
            respect to his memory, though Cousin Jimmy says Aunt
            Elizabeth used to fight with her father something scandalus
            when he was alive though no outsider knew of it
            because of the Murray pride. I feel that way myself.
            When Rhoda asked me if Aunt Elizabeth burned candles
            because she was old-fashioned I answered hawtily no, it
            was a Murray tradishun. Cousin Jimmy has told me
            all the tradishuns of the Murrays. Saucy Sal is very
            well and bosses the barns but still she will not have kittens
            and I can’t understand it. I asked Aunt Elizabeth about<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_99">99</a></span>
            it and she said nice little girls didn’t talk about such
            things but I cannot see why kittens are impropper. When
            Aunt Elizabeth is away Aunt Laura and I smuggle Sal
            into the house but when Aunt Elizabeth comes back I
            always feel gilty and wish I hadn’t. <em>But the next time
                I do it again.</em> I think that very strange. I never hear
            about dear Mike. I wrote Ellen Greene and asked about
            him and she replyed and never mentioned Mike but told
            me all about her roomatism. As if I cared about her
            roomatism.</p>
        <p>“Rhoda is going to have a birthday party and she is
            going to invite me. I am so exited. You know I never
            was to a party before. I think about it a great deal and
            picture it out. Rhoda is not going to invite all the girls
            but only a favered few. I hope Aunt Elizabeth will let
            me ware my white dress and good hat. Oh, Father, I
            pinned that lovely picture of the lace ball dress up on
            the wall of Aunt Elizabeth’s room, just like I had it
            at home and Aunt Elizabeth took it down and burned
            it and skolded me for making pin marks in the paper.
            I said Aunt Elizabeth you should not have burned that
            picture. I wanted to have it when I grow up to have
            a dress made like it for balls. And Aunt Elizabeth said
            Do you expect to attend many balls if I may ask and I
            said Yes when I am rich and famus and Aunt Elizabeth
            said Yes when the moon is made of green cheese.</p>
        <p>“I saw Dr. Burnley yesterday when he came over to
            buy some eggs from Aunt Elizabeth. I was disappointed
            because he looks just like other people. I thought a man
            who didn’t believe in God would look queer in some way.
            He did not sware either and I was sorry for I have never
            heard any one sware and I am very angshus to. He has
            big yellow eyes like Ilse and a loud voice and Rhoda says
            when he gets mad you can hear him yelling all over Blair
            Water. There is some mistery about Ilse’s mother
            which I cannot fathum. Dr. Burnley and Ilse live alone.
            Rhoda says Dr. Burnley says he will have no devils of<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_100">100</a></span>
            women in that house. That speech is wikked but striking.
            Old Mrs. Simms goes over and cooks dinner and
            supper for them and then vamooses and they get their
            own breakfast. The doctor sweeps out the house now
            and then and Ilse never does anything but run wild.
            The doctor never smiles so Rhoda says. He must be
            like King Henry the Second.</p>
        <p>“I would like to get akwanted with Ilse. She isn’t as
            sweet as Rhoda but I like her looks, too. But she doesn’t
            come to school much and Rhoda says I mustn’t have
            any chum but her or she will cry her eyes out. Rhoda
            loves me as much as I love her. We are both going to
            pray that we may live together all our lives and die the
            same day.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth always puts up my school dinner for
            me. She won’t give me anything but plain bread and
            butter but she cuts good thick slices and the butter is
            thick too and never has the horrid taste Ellen Greene’s
            butter used to have. And Aunt Laura slips in a cooky
            or an apple turnover when Aunt Elizabeth’s back is
            turned. Aunt Elizabeth says apple turnovers are not
            helthy for me. Why is it that the nicest things never
            are helthy, Father? Ellen Greene used to say that too.</p>
        <p>“My teacher’s name is Miss Brownell. I don’t like
            the cut of her jib. (That is a naughtical frays that
            Cousin Jimmy uses. I know frays is not spelled right
            but there is no dixonary at New Moon but that is the
            sound of it.) She is too sarkastik and she likes to make
            you rediklus. Then she laughs at you in a disagreable,
            snorting way. But I forgave her for slapping me and
            I took a boquet to her to school next day to make up.
            She receeved it very coldly and let it fade on her desk.
            In a story she would have wepped on my neck. I don’t
            know whether it is any use forgiving people or not.
            Yes, it is, it makes you feel more comfortable yourself.
            You never had to ware baby aprons and sunbonnets because
            you were a boy so you can’t understand how I feel<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_101">101</a></span>
            about it. And the aprons are made of such good stuff
            that they will never ware out and it will be years before
            I grow out of them. But I have a white dress for church
            with a black silk sash and a white legorn hat with black
            bows and black kid slippers, and I feel very elegant in
            them. I wish I could have a bang but Aunt Elizabeth
            will not hear to it. Rhoda told me I had beautiful eyes.
            I wish she hadn’t. I have always suspekted my eyes
            were beautiful but I was not sure. Now that I know
            they are I’m afraid I’ll always be wondering if people
            notis it. I have to go to bed at half past eight and I
            don’t like it but I sit up in bed and look out of the
            window till it gets dark, so I get square with Aunt Elizabeth
            that way, and I listen to the sound the sea makes.
            I like it now though it always makes me feel sorrowful,
            but it’s a kind of a nice sorrow. I have to sleep with
            Aunt Elizabeth and I don’t like that either because if
            I move ever so little she says I figit but she admits that
            I don’t kick. And she won’t let me put the window up.
            She doesn’t like fresh air or light in the house. The
            parlour is dark as a toomb. I went in one day and rolled
            up all the blinds and Aunt Elizabeth was horrifyed and
            called me a little hussy and gave me the Murray look.
            You would suppose I had committed a crime. I felt so
            insulted that I came up to the garret and wrote a deskription
            of myself being drowned on a letter-bill and then I
            felt better. Aunt Elizabeth said I was never to go into
            the parlour again without permission but I don’t want to.
            I am afraid of the parlour. All the walls are hung over
            with pictures of our ancesters and there is not one good-looking
            person among them except Grand-father Murray
            who looks handsome but very cross. The spare room
            is upstairs and is just as gloomy as the parlour. Aunt
            Elizabeth only lets distingwished people sleep there. I
            like the kitchen in daytime, and the garret and the cook-house
            and the sitting-room and the hall because of the
            lovely red front door and I love the dairy, but I don’t like<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_102">102</a></span>
            the other New Moon rooms. Oh, I forgot the cellar
            cubbord. I love to go down there and look at the beautiful
            rows of jam and jelly pots. Cousin Jimmy says it is
            a New Moon tradishun that the jam pots must never be
            empty. What a lot of tradishuns New Moon has. It is
            a very spashus house, and the trees are lovely. I have
            named the three lombardys at the garden gate the Three
            Princesses and I have named the old summer house
            Emily’s Bower, and the big apple tree by the old orchard
            gate the Praying Tree because it holds up its long boughs
            exactly as Mr. Dare holds up his arms in church where
            he prays.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth has given me the little right hand top
            burow drawer to keep my things in.</p>
        <p>“Oh, Father dear, I have made a great diskoverry. I
            wish I had made it when you were alive for I think you’d
            have liked to know. <em>I can write poetry.</em> Perhaps I
            could have written it long ago if I’d tried. But after
            that first day in school I felt I was bound in honnour to
            try and it is so easy. There is a little curly black-covered
            book in Aunt Elizabeth’s bookcase called Thompson’s
            Seasons and I decided I would write a poem on a season
            and the first three lines are,</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">Now Autumn comes ripe with the peech and pear,</div>
                    <div class="line">The sportsman’s horn is heard throughout the land,</div>
                    <div class="line">And the poor partridge fluttering falls dead.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>“Of course there are no peeches in P. E. Island and
            I never heard a sportsman’s horn here either, but you
            don’t have to stick too close to facts in poetry. I filled
            a whole letter-bill with it and then I ran and read it to
            Aunt Laura. I thought she would be overjoyed to find
            she had a niece who could write poetry but she took it
            very coolly and said it didn’t sound much like poetry.
            It’s blank verse I cryed. <em>Very</em> blank said Aunt Elizabeth<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_103">103</a></span>
            sarkastically though I hadn’t asked <em>her</em> opinion.
            But I think I will write ryming poetry after this so that
            there will be no mistake about it and I intend to be a
            poetess when I grow up and become famus. I hope
            also that I will be silph-like. A poetess should be silph-like.
            Cousin Jimmy makes poetry too. He has made
            over 1000 pieces but he never writes any down but carries
            them in his head. I offered to give him some of my
            letter-bills—for he is very kind to me—but he said he
            was too old to learn new habits. I haven’t heard any
            of his poetry yet because the spirit hasn’t moved him
            but I am very angshus to and I am sorry they don’t fatten
            the pigs till the fall. I like Cousin Jimmy more and
            more all the time, except when he takes his queer spells
            of looking and talking. Then he fritens me but they
            never last long. I have read a good many of the books
            in the New Moon bookcase. A history of the reformation
            in France, very relijus and sad. A little fat book
            deskribing the months in England and the afoursaid
            Thompson’s Seasons. I like to read them because they
            have so many pretty words in them, but I don’t like the
            feel of them. The paper is so rough and thick it makes
            me creepy. Travels in Spain, very fassinating, with
            lovely smooth shiny paper, a missionary book on the
            Paciffic Islands, pictures very interesting because of the
            way the heathen chiefs arange their hair. After they
            became Christians they cut it off which I think was a
            pity. Mrs. Hemans Poems. I am passhunately fond of
            poetry, also of stories about desert islands. Rob Roy,
            a novel, but I only read a little of it when Aunt Elizabeth
            said I must stop because I must not read novels.
            Aunt Laura says to read it on the sly. I don’t see why
            it wouldn’t be all right to obey Aunt Laura but I have
            a queer feeling about it and I haven’t yet. A lovely
            Tiger-book, full of pictures and stories of tigers that
            make me feel so nice and shivery. The Royal Road, also<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_104">104</a></span>
            relijus but some fun in it so very good for Sundays.
            Reuben and Grace, a story but not a novel, because Reuben
            and Grace are brother and sister and there is no getting
            married. Little Katy and Jolly Jim, same as above
            but not so exciting and traggic. Nature’s Mighty Wonders
            which is good and improving. Alice in Wonderland,
            which is perfectly lovely, and the Memoirs of Anzonetta
            B. Peters who was converted at seven and died
            at twelve. When anybody asked for a question she
            answered with a hym verse. That is after she was converted.
            Before that she spoke English. Aunt Elizabeth
            told me I ought to try to be like Anzonetta. I
            think I might be an Alice under more faverable circumstances
            but I am sure I can never be as good as Anzonetta
            was and I don’t believe I want to be because she never
            had any fun. She got sick as soon as she was converted
            and suffered aggonies for years. Besides I am sure that
            if I talked hyms to people it would exite ridicule. I
            tried it once. Aunt Laura asked me the other day if
            I would like blue stripes better than red in my next winter’s
            stockings and I ansered just as Anzonetta did
            when asked a similar question, only different, about a
            sack,</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">Jesus Thy blood and rightchusness</div>
                    <div class="line">My beauty are, my glorious dress.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">And Aunt Laura said was I crazy and Aunt Elizabeth
            said I was ireverent. So I know it wouldn’t work. Besides,
            Anzonetta couldn’t eat anything for years having
            ulsers in her stomach and I am pretty fond of good eating.</p>
        <p>“Old Mr. Wales on the Derry Pond Road is dying of
            canser. Jennie Strang says his wife has her morning all
            ready.</p>
        <p>“I wrote a biograffy of Saucy Sal to-day and a deskripshun
            of the road in Lofty John’s bush. I will pin<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_105">105</a></span>
            them to this letter so you can read them too. Good night
            my beloved Father.</p>
        <p class="mb0">“Yours most obedient humble servant,</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>Emily B. Starr.</em></p>
        <p class="mb0">“P. S. I think Aunt Laura loves me. I like to be
            loved, Father dear.</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>E. B. S.</em>”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="x" />CHAPTER X<br />
                <span>Growing Pains</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">T</span>HERE was a great deal of suppressed excitement
            in school during the last week in June, the cause
            thereof being Rhoda Stuart’s birthday party, which was
            to take place early in July. The amount of heart burning
            was incredible. Who was to be invited? That was
            the great question. There were some who knew they
            wouldn’t and some who knew they would; but there were
            more who were in truly horrible suspense. Everybody
            paid court to Emily because she was Rhoda’s dearest
            friend and might conceivably have some voice in the
            selection of guests. Jennie Strang even went as far as
            bluntly to offer Emily a beautiful white box with a gorgeous
            picture of Queen Victoria on the cover, to keep her
            pencils in, if she would procure her an invitation. Emily
            refused the bribe and said grandly that she could not
            interfere in such a delicate matter. Emily really did put
            on some airs about it. <em>She</em> was sure of her invitation.
            Rhoda had told her about the party weeks before and had
            talked it all over with her. It was to be a very grand
            affair—a birthday cake covered with pink icing and
            adorned with ten tall pink candles—ice-cream and oranges—and
            written invitations on pink, gilt-edged notepaper<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_106">106</a></span>
            <em>sent through the post-office</em>—this last being an
            added touch of exclusiveness. Emily dreamed about that
            party day and night and had her present all ready for
            Rhoda—a pretty hair ribbon which Aunt Laura had
            brought from Shrewsbury.
        </p>
        <p>On the first Sunday in July Emily found herself sitting
            beside Jennie Strang in Sunday School for the opening
            exercises. Generally she and Rhoda sat together,
            but now Rhoda was sitting three seats ahead with a
            strange little girl—a very gay and gorgeous little girl,
            dressed in blue silk, with a large, flower-wreathed leghorn
            hat on her elaborately curled hair, white lace-work
            stockings on her pudgy legs and a bang that came clean
            down to her eyes. Not all her fine feathers could make a
            really fine bird of her, however; she was not in the least
            pretty and her expression was cross and contemptuous.</p>
        <p>“Who is the girl sitting with Rhoda?” whispered
            Emily.</p>
        <p>“Oh, she’s Muriel Porter,” answered Jennie. “She’s
            a towny, you know. She’s come out to spend her vacation
            with her aunt, Jane Beatty. I hate her. If I was
            her I’d never <em>dream</em> of wearing blue with a skin as dark
            as hers. But the Porters are rich and Muriel thinks she’s
            a wonder. They say Rhoda and her have been <em>awful
                thick</em> since she came out—Rhoda’s always chasing after
            anybody she thinks is up in the world.”</p>
        <p>Emily stiffened up. She was not going to listen to
            disparaging remarks about her friends. Jennie felt the
            stiffening and changed her note.</p>
        <p>“Anyway, I’m <em>glad</em> I’m not invited to Rhoda’s old
            party. I wouldn’t <em>want</em> to go when Muriel Porter will
            be there, putting on her airs.”</p>
        <p>“How do you know you are not invited?” wondered
            Emily.</p>
        <p>“Why, the invitations went out yesterday. Didn’t you
            get yours?”</p>
        <p>“No—o—o.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_107">107</a></span></p>
        <p>“Did you get your mail?”</p>
        <p>“Yes—Cousin Jimmy got it.”</p>
        <p>“Well, maybe Mrs. Beecher forgot to give it to him.
            Likely you’ll get it to-morrow.”</p>
        <p>Emily agreed that it was likely. But a queer cold sensation
            of dismay had invaded her being, which was not
            removed by the fact that after Sunday School Rhoda
            strutted away with Muriel Porter without a glance at
            any one else. On Monday Emily herself went to the post-office,
            but there was no pink envelope for her. She cried
            herself to sleep that night, but did not quite give up hope
            until Tuesday had passed. Then she faced the terrible
            truth—that she—she, Emily Byrd Starr, of New Moon—had
            not been invited to Rhoda’s party. The thing was
            incredible. There <em>must</em> be a mistake somewhere. Had
            Cousin Jimmy lost the invitation on the road home?
            Had Rhoda’s grown-up sister who wrote the invitations
            overlooked her name? Had,—Emily’s unhappy doubts
            were forever resolved into bitter certainty by Jennie,
            who joined her as she left the post-office. There was
            a malicious light in Jennie’s beady eyes. Jennie liked
            Emily quite well by now, in spite of their passage-at-arms
            on the day of their first meeting, but she liked to
            see her pride humbled for all that.</p>
        <p>“So you’re not invited to Rhoda’s party after all.”</p>
        <p>“No,” admitted Emily.</p>
        <p>It was a very bitter moment for her. The Murray
            pride was sorely wrung—and, beneath the Murray pride,
            something else had been grievously wounded but was not
            yet quite dead.</p>
        <p>“Well, I call it dirt mean,” said Jennie, quite honestly
            sympathetic in spite of her secret satisfaction. “After
            all the fuss she’s made over you, too! But that’s Rhoda
            Stuart all over. Deceitful is no name for <em>her</em>.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t think she’s deceitful,” said Emily, loyal to
            the last ditch. “I believe there’s some mistake about
            my not being invited.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_108">108</a></span></p>
        <p>Jennie stared.</p>
        <p>“Then you don’t know the reason? Why, Beth
            Beatty told me the whole story. Muriel Porter hates
            you and she just up and told Rhoda that she would not
            go to her party if you were invited. And Rhoda was
            so crazy to have a town girl there that she promised she
            wouldn’t invite you.”</p>
        <p>“Muriel Porter doesn’t know me,” gasped Emily.
            “How can she hate me?”</p>
        <p>Jennie grinned impishly.</p>
        <p>“<em>I</em> can tell you. She’s <em>dead stuck</em> on Fred Stuart and
            Fred knows it and he teased her by praising <em>you</em> up to
            her—told her you were the sweetest girl in Blair Water
            and he meant to have you for <em>his girl</em> when you were a
            little older. And Muriel was so mad and jealous she
            made Rhoda leave you out. <em>I</em> wouldn’t care if I was
            you. A Murray of New Moon is away above such
            trash. As for Rhoda not being deceitful, I can tell you
            she <em>is</em>. Why, she told you that she didn’t know that
            snake was in the box, when it was her thought of doing
            it in the first place.”</p>
        <p>Emily was too crushed to reply. She was glad that
            Jennie had to switch off down her own lane and leave
            her alone. She hurried home, afraid that she could not
            keep the tears back until she got there. Disappointment
            about the party—humiliation over the insult—all were
            swallowed up in the anguish of a faith betrayed and a
            trust outraged. Her love of Rhoda was quite dead
            now and Emily smarted to the core of her soul with
            the pain of the blow that had killed it. It was a child’s
            tragedy—and all the more bitter for that, since there was
            no one to understand. Aunt Elizabeth told her that
            birthday parties were all nonsense and that the Stuarts
            were not a family that the Murrays had ever associated
            with. And even Aunt Laura, though she petted and
            comforted, did not realize how deep and grievous the
            hurt had been—so deep and grievous that Emily could<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_109">109</a></span>
            not even write about it to her father, and had no outlet
            for the violence of emotion that racked her being.</p>
        <p>The next Sunday Rhoda was alone in Sunday School,
            Muriel Porter having been suddenly summoned back
            to town by her father’s illness; and Rhoda looked sweetly
            towards Emily. But Emily sailed past her with a head
            held very high and scorn on every lineament. She would
            <em>never</em> have anything to do with Rhoda Stuart again—she
            couldn’t. She despised Rhoda more than ever for
            trying to get back with her, now that the town girl for
            whom she had sacrificed her was gone. It was not for
            Rhoda she mourned—it was for the friendship that had
            been so dear to her. Rhoda <em>had</em> been dear and sweet on
            the surface at least, and Emily had found intense happiness
            in their companionship. Now it was gone and she
            could never, <em>never</em> love or trust anybody again. <em>There</em>
            lay the sting.
        </p>
        <p>It poisoned everything. Emily was of a nature which,
            even as a child, did not readily recover from or forget
            such a blow. She moped about New Moon, lost her
            appetite and grew thin. She hated to go to Sunday
            School because she thought the other girls exulted in
            her humiliation and her estrangement from Rhoda.
            Some slight feeling of the kind there was, perhaps, but
            Emily morbidly exaggerated it. If two girls whispered
            or giggled together she thought she was being discussed
            and laughed at. If one of them walked home with her
            she thought it was out of condescending pity because
            she was friendless. For a month Emily was the most
            unhappy little being in Blair Water.</p>
        <p>“I think I must have been put under a curse at birth,”
            she reflected disconsolately.</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth had a more prosaic idea to account
            for Emily’s languor and lack of appetite. She had come
            to the conclusion that Emily’s heavy masses of hair “took
            from her strength” and that she would be much stronger
            and better if it were cut off. With Aunt Elizabeth to<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_110">110</a></span>
            decide was to act. One morning she coolly informed
            Emily that her hair was to be “shingled.”</p>
        <p>Emily could not believe her ears.</p>
        <p>“You don’t mean that you are going to cut off my
            hair, Aunt Elizabeth,” she exclaimed.</p>
        <p>“Yes, I mean exactly that,” said Aunt Elizabeth firmly.
            “You have entirely too much hair especially for hot
            weather. I feel sure that is why you have been so miserable
            lately. Now, I don’t want any crying.”</p>
        <p>But Emily could not keep the tears back.</p>
        <p>“Don’t cut it <em>all</em> off,” she pleaded. “Just cut a good
            big bang. Lots of the girls have their hair banged
            clean from the crown of their heads. That would take
            half my hair off and the rest won’t take too much
            strength.”</p>
        <p>“There will be no bangs here,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
            “I’ve told you so often enough. I’m going to shingle
            your hair close all over your head for the hot weather.
            You’ll be thankful to me some day for it.”</p>
        <p>Emily felt anything but thankful just then.</p>
        <p>“It’s my one beauty,” she sobbed, “it and my lashes.
            I suppose you want to cut off my lashes too.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth <em>did</em> distrust those long, upcurled
            fringes of Emily’s, which were an inheritance from the
            girlish stepmother, and too un-Murray-like to be approved;
            but she had no designs against them. The hair
            must go, however, and she curtly bade Emily wait there,
            without any fuss, until she got the scissors.</p>
        <p>Emily waited—quite hopelessly. She must lose her
            lovely hair—the hair her father had been so proud of.
            It might grow again in time—if Aunt Elizabeth let it—but
            that would take years, and meanwhile what a fright
            she would be! Aunt Laura and Cousin Jimmy were out;
            she had no one to back her up; this horrible thing must
            happen.</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth returned with the scissors; they clicked
            suggestively as she opened them; that click, as if by magic,<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_111">111</a></span>
            seemed to loosen something—some strange formidable
            power in Emily’s soul. She turned deliberately around
            and faced her aunt. She felt her brows drawing together
            in an unaccustomed way—she felt an uprush as from
            unknown depths of some irresistible surge of energy.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth,” she said, looking straight at the
            lady with the scissors, “<em>my hair is not going to be cut off</em>.
            Let me hear no more of this.”</p>
        <p>An amazing thing happened to Aunt Elizabeth. She
            turned pale—she laid the scissors down—she looked
            aghast for one moment at the transformed or possessed
            child before her—and then for the first time in her life
            Elizabeth Murray turned tail and fled—literally fled—to
            the kitchen.</p>
        <p>“What is the matter, Elizabeth?” cried Laura, coming
            in from the cook-house.</p>
        <p>“I saw—Father—looking from her face,” gasped Elizabeth,
            trembling. “And she said, ‘Let me hear no more
            of this,’—just as <em>he</em> always said it—his very words.”</p>
        <p>Emily overheard her and ran to the sideboard mirror.
            She had had, while she was speaking, an uncanny feeling
            of wearing somebody else’s face instead of her own.
            It was vanishing now—but Emily caught a glimpse of
            it as it left—the Murray look, she supposed. No wonder
            it had frightened Aunt Elizabeth—it frightened herself—she
            was glad that it had gone. She shivered—she fled
            to her garret retreat and cried; but somehow, she knew
            that her hair would not be cut.</p>
        <p>Nor was it; Aunt Elizabeth never referred to the matter
            again. But several days passed before she meddled
            much with Emily.</p>
        <p>It was a rather curious fact that from that day Emily
            ceased to grieve over her lost friend. The matter had
            suddenly become of small importance. It was as if it
            had happened so long ago that nothing, save the mere
            emotionless memory of it, remained. Emily speedily
            regained appetite and animation, resumed her letters to<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_112">112</a></span>
            her father and found that life tasted good again, marred
            only by a mysterious prescience that Aunt Elizabeth had
            it in for her in regard to her defeat in the matter of her
            hair and would get even sooner or later.</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth “got even” within the week. Emily
            was to go on an errand to the shop. It was a broiling
            day and she had been allowed to go barefooted at home;
            but now she must put on boots and stockings. Emily
            rebelled—it was too hot—it was too dusty—she couldn’t
            walk that long half-mile in buttoned boots. Aunt Elizabeth
            was inexorable. No Murray must be seen barefooted
            away from home—and on they went. But the
            minute Emily was outside the New Moon gate she deliberately
            sat down, took them off, stowed them in a hole
            in the dyke, and pranced away barefooted.</p>
        <p>She did her errand and returned with an untroubled
            conscience. How beautiful the world was—how softly
            blue was the great, round Blair Water—how glorious
            that miracle of buttercups in the wet field below Lofty
            John’s bush! At sight of it Emily stood stock still and
            composed a verse of poetry.</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">“Buttercup, flower of the yellow dye,</div>
                    <div class="line indent">I see thy cheerful face</div>
                    <div class="line">Greeting and nodding everywhere</div>
                    <div class="line indent">Careless of time and place.</div>
                </div>
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">“In boggy field or public road</div>
                    <div class="line indent">Or cultured garden’s pale</div>
                    <div class="line">You sport your petals satin-soft,</div>
                    <div class="line indent">And down within the vale.”</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>So far, so good. But Emily wanted another verse to
            round the poem off properly and the divine afflatus
            seemed gone. She walked dreamily home, and by the
            time she reached New Moon she had got her verse and
            was reciting it to herself with an agreeable sense of completion.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_113">113</a></span></p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">“You cast your loveliness around</div>
                    <div class="line indent">Where’er you chance to be,</div>
                    <div class="line">And you shall always, buttercup,</div>
                    <div class="line indent">Be a flower dear to me.”</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>Emily felt very proud. This was her third poem and
            undoubtedly her best. Nobody could say <em>it</em> was very
            blank. She must hurry up to the garret and write it on
            a letter-bill. But Aunt Elizabeth was confronting her
            on the steps.</p>
        <p>“Emily, where are your boots and stockings?”</p>
        <p>Emily came back from cloudland with a disagreeable
            jolt. She had forgotten all about boots and stockings.</p>
        <p>“In the hole by the gate,” she said flatly.</p>
        <p>“You went to the store barefooted?”</p>
        <p>“Yes.”</p>
        <p>“After I had told you not to?”</p>
        <p>This seemed to Emily a superfluous question and she
            did not answer it. But Aunt Elizabeth’s turn had come.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xi" />CHAPTER XI<br />
                <span>Ilse</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">E</span>MILY was locked in the spare-room and told that
            she must stay there until bedtime. She had pleaded
            against such a punishment in vain. She had tried to
            give the Murray look but it seemed that—in her case at
            any rate—it did not come at will.</p>
        <p>“Oh, don’t shut me up alone there, Aunt Elizabeth,”
            she implored. “I know I was naughty—but don’t put
            me in the spare-room.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth was inexorable. She knew that it was
            a cruel thing to shut an over-sensitive child like Emily
            in that gloomy room. But she thought she was doing<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_114">114</a></span>
            her duty. She did not realize and would not have for
            a moment believed that she was really wreaking her own
            smothered resentment with Emily for her defeat and
            fright on the day of the threatened hair-cutting. Aunt
            Elizabeth believed she had been stampeded on that occasion
            by a chance family resemblance coming out under
            stress, and she was ashamed of it. The Murray pride
            had smarted under that humbling, and the smart ceased
            to annoy her only when she turned the key of the spare-room
            on the white-faced culprit.</p>
        <p>Emily, looking very small and lost and lonely, her eyes
            full of such fear as should have no place in a child’s
            eyes, shrank close against the door of the spare-room.
            It was better that way. She could not imagine things
            behind her then. And the room was so big and dim that
            a dreadful number of things could be imagined in it. Its
            bigness and dimness filled her with a terror against which
            she could not strive. Ever since she could remember
            she had had a horror of being shut up alone in semi-darkness.
            She was not frightened of twilight out-of-doors,
            but this shadowy, walled gloom made of the spare-room
            a place of dread.</p>
        <p>The window was hung with heavy, dark-green material,
            reinforced by drawn slat-blinds. The big canopied bed,
            jutting out from the wall into the middle of the floor,
            was high and rigid and curtained also with dark draperies.
            <em>Anything</em> might jump at her out of such a bed. What
            if some great black hand should suddenly reach out of it—reach
            right across the floor—and pluck at her? The
            walls, like those of the parlour, were adorned with pictures
            of departed relatives. There <em>was</em> such a large connection
            of dead Murrays. The glasses of their frames
            gave out weird reflections of the spectral threads of light
            struggling through the slat blinds. Worst of all, right
            across the room from her, high up on the top of the
            black wardrobe, was a huge, stuffed white Arctic owl,
            staring at her with uncanny eyes. Emily shrieked aloud<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_115">115</a></span>
            when she saw it, and then cowered down in her corner
            aghast at the sound she had made in the great, silent,
            echoing room. She wished that something <em>would</em> jump
            out of the bed and put an end to her.
        </p>
        <p>“I wonder what Aunt Elizabeth would feel like if I
            was found here <em>dead</em>,” she thought, vindictively.</p>
        <p>In spite of her fright she began to dramatize it and
            felt Aunt Elizabeth’s remorse so keenly that she decided
            only to be unconscious and come back to life when everybody
            was sufficiently scared and penitent. But people
            <em>had</em> died in this room—dozens of them. According to
            Cousin Jimmy it was a New Moon tradition that when
            any member of the family was near death he or she was
            promptly removed to the spare-room, to die amid surroundings
            of proper grandeur. Emily could <em>see</em> them
            dying, in that terrible bed. She felt that she was going
            to scream again, but she fought the impulse down. A
            Starr must not be a coward. Oh, that owl! Suppose,
            when she looked away from it and then looked back she
            would find that it had silently hopped down from the
            wardrobe and was coming towards her. Emily dared not
            look at it for fear that was just what had happened.
            <em>Didn’t</em> the bed curtains stir and waver! She felt beads
            of cold perspiration on her forehead.
        </p>
        <p>Then something did happen. A beam of sunlight
            struck through a small break in one of the slats of the
            blind and fell directly athwart the picture of Grandfather
            Murray hanging over the mantel-piece. It was a crayon
            “enlargement” copied from the old daguerreotype in the
            parlour below. In that gleam of light his face seemed
            veritably to leap out of the gloom at Emily with its grim
            frown strangely exaggerated. Emily’s nerve gave way
            completely. In an ungovernable spasm of panic she
            rushed madly across the room to the window, dashed the
            curtains aside, and caught up the slat blind. A blessed
            flood of sunshine burst in. Outside was a wholesome,
            friendly, human world. And, of all wonders, there, leaning<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_116">116</a></span>
            right against the window-sill was a ladder! For a
            moment Emily almost believed that a miracle had been
            worked for her escape.</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy had tripped that morning over the
            ladder, lying lost among the burdocks under the balm-of-gileads
            behind the dairy. It was very rotten and he decided
            it was time it was disposed of. He had shouldered
            it up against the house so that he would be sure to see
            it on his return from the hayfield.</p>
        <p>In less time than it takes to write of it Emily had
            got the window up, climbed out on the sill, and backed
            down the ladder. She was too intent on escaping from
            that horrible room to be conscious of the shakiness of the
            rotten rungs. When she reached the ground she bolted
            through the balm-of-gileads and over the fence into
            Lofty John’s bush, nor did she stop running till she
            reached the path by the brook.</p>
        <p>Then she paused for breath, exultant. She was full
            of a fearful joy with an elfin delight running through it.
            Sweet was the wind of freedom that was blowing over
            the ferns. She had escaped from the spare-room and its
            ghosts—she had got the better of mean old Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“I feel as if I was a little bird that had just got out
            of a cage,” she told herself; and then she danced with
            joy of it all along her fairy path to the very end, where
            she found Ilse Burnley huddled up on the top of a fence
            panel, her pale-gold head making a spot of brilliance
            against the dark young firs that crowded around her.
            Emily had not seen her since that first day of school
            and again she thought she had never seen or pretended
            anybody just like Ilse.</p>
        <p>“Well, Emily of New Moon,” said Ilse, “where are
            you running to?”</p>
        <p>“I’m running away,” said Emily frankly. “I was bad—at
            least, I was a little bad—and Aunt Elizabeth locked
            me in the spare-room. I hadn’t been bad enough for<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_117">117</a></span>
            <em>that</em>—it wasn’t fair—so I got out of the window and
            down the ladder.”
        </p>
        <p>“You little cuss! I didn’t think you’d gimp enough
            for that,” said Ilse.</p>
        <p>Emily gasped. It seemed very dreadful to be called
            a little cuss. But Ilse had said it quite admiringly.</p>
        <p>“I don’t think it was gimp,” said Emily, too honest to
            take a compliment she didn’t deserve. “I was too scared
            to stay in that room.”</p>
        <p>“Well, where are you going now?” asked Ilse. “You’ll
            have to go somewhere—you can’t stay outdoors.
            There’s a thunderstorm coming up.”</p>
        <p>So there was. Emily did not like thunderstorms.
            And her conscience smote her.</p>
        <p>“Oh,” she said, “do you suppose God is bringing up
            that storm to punish me because I’ve run away?”</p>
        <p>“No,” said Ilse scornfully. “If there is any God he
            wouldn’t make such a fuss over nothing.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, Ilse, don’t you believe there is a God?”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know. Father says there isn’t. But in that
            case how did things happen? Some days I believe there’s
            a God and some days I don’t. You’d better come home
            with me. There’s nobody there. I was so dod-gastedly
            lonesome I took to the bush.”</p>
        <p>Ilse sprang down and held out her sunburned paw to
            Emily. Emily took it and they ran together over Lofty
            John’s pasture to the old Burnley house which looked
            <a id="like" /><ins title="Original has 'ike'">like</ins> a huge grey cat basking in the warm late sunshine,
            that
            had not yet been swallowed up by the menacing thunderheads.
            Inside, it was full of furniture that must have
            been quite splendid once; but the disorder was dreadful
            and the dust lay thickly over everything. Nothing was
            in the right place apparently, and Aunt Laura would
            certainly have fainted with horror if she had seen the
            kitchen. But it was a good place to play. You didn’t
            have to be careful not to mess things up. Ilse and Emily
            had a glorious game of hide and seek all over the house<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_118">118</a></span>
            until the thunder got so heavy and the lightning so bright
            that Emily felt she must huddle on the sofa and nurse
            her courage.
        </p>
        <p>“Aren’t you ever afraid of thunder?” she asked Ilse.</p>
        <p>“No, I ain’t afraid of anything except the devil,” said
            Ilse.</p>
        <p>“I thought you didn’t believe in the devil either—Rhoda
            said you didn’t.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, there’s a devil all right, Father says. It’s only
            God he doesn’t believe in. And if there <em>is</em> a devil and
            no God to keep him in order, is it any wonder I’m scared
            of him? Look here, Emily Byrd Starr, I like you—heaps.
            I’ve always liked you. I knew you’d soon be
            good and sick of that little, white-livered, lying sneak of
            a Rhoda Stuart. <em>I</em> never tell lies. Father told me once
            he’d kill me if he ever caught me telling a lie. I want
            you for <em>my</em> chum. I’d go to school regular if I could
            sit with you.”</p>
        <p>“All right,” said Emily off-handedly. No more sentimental
            Rhodian vows of eternal devotion for her. <em>That</em>
            phase was over.</p>
        <p>“And you’ll tell me things—nobody ever tells me
            things. And let <em>me</em> tell <em>you</em> things—I haven’t anybody
            to tell things to,” said Ilse. “And you won’t be ashamed
            of me because my clothes are always queer and because
            I don’t believe in God?”</p>
        <p>“No. But if you knew Father’s God you’d believe in
            <em>Him</em>.”
        </p>
        <p>“I wouldn’t. Besides, there’s only one God if there
            is any at all.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know,” said Emily perplexedly. “No, it
            can’t be like that. Ellen Greene’s God isn’t a bit like
            Father’s, and neither is Aunt Elizabeth’s. I don’t think
            I’d <em>like</em> Aunt Elizabeth’s, but He is a <em>dignified</em> God at
            least, and Ellen’s isn’t. And I’m sure Aunt Laura’s is
            another one still—nice and kind but not wonderful like
            Father’s.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_119">119</a></span></p>
        <p>“Well never mind—I don’t like talking about God,”
            said Ilse uncomfortably.</p>
        <p>“<em>I</em> do,” said Emily. “I think God is a very interesting
            subject, and I’m going to pray for you, Ilse, that you
            can believe in Father’s God.”</p>
        <p>“Don’t you dast!” shouted Ilse, who for some mysterious
            reason did not like the idea. “I won’t be prayed
            for!”</p>
        <p>“Don’t you ever pray yourself, Ilse?”</p>
        <p>“Oh, now and then—when I feel lonesome at night—or
            when I’m in a scrape. But I don’t want any one else
            to pray for me. If I catch you doing it, Emily Starr,
            I’ll tear your eyes out. And don’t you go sneaking and
            praying for me behind my back either.”</p>
        <p>“All right, I won’t,” said Emily sharply, mortified at
            the failure of her well-meant offer. “I’ll pray for every
            single soul I know, but I’ll leave you out.”</p>
        <p>For a moment Ilse looked as if she didn’t like this
            either. Then she laughed and gave Emily a volcanic
            hug.</p>
        <p>“Well, anyway, please like me. Nobody likes me, you
            know.”</p>
        <p>“Your father <em>must</em> like you, Ilse.”</p>
        <p>“He doesn’t,” said Ilse positively. “Father doesn’t
            care a hoot about me. I think there’s times when he
            hates the sight of me. I wish he <em>did</em> like me because
            he can be awful nice when he likes any one. Do you
            know what I’m going to be when I grow up? I’m going
            to be an elo-cu-tion-ist.”</p>
        <p>“What’s that?”</p>
        <p>“A woman who recites at concerts. I can do it dandy.
            What are you going to be?”</p>
        <p>“A poetess.”</p>
        <p>“Golly!” said Ilse, apparently overcome. “I don’t believe
            <em>you</em> can write poetry,” she added.
        </p>
        <p>“I can so, too,” cried Emily. “I’ve written three
            pieces—‘Autumn’ and ‘Lines to Rhoda’—only I burned<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_120">120</a></span>
            <em>that</em>—and ‘An Address to a Buttercup.’ I composed it
            to-day and it is my—my masterpiece.”
        </p>
        <p>“Let’s hear it,” ordered Ilse.</p>
        <p>Nothing loth, Emily proudly repeated her lines.
            Somehow she did not mind letting Ilse hear them.</p>
        <p>“Emily Byrd Starr, you <em>didn’t</em> make that out of your
            own head?”</p>
        <p>“I did.”</p>
        <p>“Cross your heart?”</p>
        <p>“Cross my heart.”</p>
        <p>“Well”—Ilse drew a long breath—“I guess you <em>are</em>
            a poetess all right.”</p>
        <p>It was a very proud moment for Emily—one of the
            great moments of life, in fact. Her world had conceded
            her standing. But now other things had to be thought
            of. The storm was over and the sun had set. It was
            twilight—it would soon be dark. She must get home
            and back into the spare-room before her absence was
            discovered. It was dreadful to think of going back but
            she must do it lest a worse thing come upon her at Aunt
            Elizabeth’s hands. Just now, under the inspiration of
            Ilse’s personality, she was full of Dutch courage. Besides,
            it would soon be her bedtime and she would be let
            out. She trotted home through Lofty John’s bush, that
            was full of the wandering, mysterious lamps of the fireflies,
            dodged cautiously through the balm-of-gileads—and
            stopped short in dismay. The ladder was gone!</p>
        <p>Emily went around to the kitchen door, feeling that
            she was going straight to her doom. But for once the
            way of the transgressor was made sinfully easy. Aunt
            Laura was alone in the kitchen.</p>
        <p>“Emily dear, where on earth did you come from?”
            she exclaimed. “I was just going up to let you out.
            Elizabeth said I might—she’s gone to prayer-meeting.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Laura did not say that she had tiptoed several
            times to the spare-room door and had been racked with
            anxiety over the silence behind it. Was the child unconscious<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_121">121</a></span>
            from fright? Not even while the thunderstorm
            was going on would relentless Elizabeth allow that door to
            be opened. And here was Miss Emily walking unconcernedly
            in out of the twilight after all this agony. For
            a moment even Aunt Laura was annoyed. But when
            she heard Emily’s tale her only feeling was thankfulness
            that Juliet’s child had not broken her neck on that rotten
            ladder.</p>
        <p>Emily felt that she had got off better than she deserved.
            She knew Aunt Laura would keep the secret;
            and Aunt Laura let her give Saucy Sal a whole cupful
            of strippings, and gave her a big plummy cooky and put
            her to bed with kisses.</p>
        <p>“You oughtn’t to be so good to me because I <em>was</em> bad
            to-day,” Emily said, between delicious mouthfuls. “I
            suppose I disgraced the Murrays going barefoot.”</p>
        <p>“If I were you I’d hide my boots every time I went
            out of the gate,” said Aunt Laura. “But I wouldn’t
            forget to put them on before I came back. What Elizabeth
            doesn’t know will never hurt her.”</p>
        <p>Emily reflected over this until she had finished her
            cooky. Then she said,</p>
        <p>“That would be nice, but I don’t mean to do it any
            more. I guess I must obey Aunt Elizabeth because she’s
            the head of the family.”</p>
        <p>“Where do you get such notions?” said Aunt Laura.</p>
        <p>“Out of my head. Aunt Laura, Ilse Burnley and I
            are going to be chums. I like her—I’ve always felt I’d
            like her if I had a chance. I don’t believe I can ever <em>love</em>
            any girl again, but I <em>like</em> her.”</p>
        <p>“Poor Ilse!” said Aunt Laura, sighing.</p>
        <p>“Yes, her father doesn’t like her. Isn’t it dreadful?”
            said Emily. “Why doesn’t he?”</p>
        <p>“He does—really. He only thinks he doesn’t.”</p>
        <p>“But <em>why</em> does he think it?”</p>
        <p>“You are too young to understand, Emily.”</p>
        <p>Emily hated to be told she was too young to understand.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_122">122</a></span>
            She felt that she could understand perfectly well
            if only people would take the trouble to explain things
            to her and not be so mysterious.</p>
        <p>“I wish I could pray for her. It wouldn’t be fair,
            though, when I know how she feels about it. But I’ve
            always asked God to bless all my friends so she’ll be in
            <em>that</em> and maybe some good will come of it. Is ‘golly’
            a proper word to say, Aunt Laura?”
        </p>
        <p>“No—no!”</p>
        <p>“I’m sorry for that,” said Emily, seriously, “because
            it’s very striking.”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xii" />CHAPTER XII<br />
                <span>The Tansy Patch</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">E</span>MILY and Ilse had a splendid fortnight of fun before
            their first fight. It was really quite a terrible
            fight, arising out of a simple argument as to whether they
            would or would not have a parlour in the playhouse they
            were building in Lofty John’s bush. Emily wanted a
            parlour and Ilse didn’t. Ilse lost her temper at once,
            and went into a true Burnley tantrum. She was very
            fluent in her rages and the volley of abusive “dictionary
            words” which she hurled at Emily would have staggered
            most of the Blair Water girls. But Emily was too much
            at home with words to be floored so easily; she grew
            angry too, but in the cool, dignified, Murray way which
            was more exasperating than violence. When Ilse had to
            pause for breath in her diatribes, Emily, sitting on a big
            stone with her knees crossed, her eyes black and her
            cheeks crimson, interjected little sarcastic retorts that
            infuriated Ilse still further. Ilse was crimson, too, and
            her eyes were pools of scintillating, tawny fire. They
            were both so pretty in their fury that it was almost a
            pity they couldn’t have been angry all the time.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_123">123</a></span></p>
        <p>“You needn’t suppose, you little puling, snivelling
            chit, that you are going to boss <em>me</em>, just because you live
            at New Moon,” shrieked Ilse, as an ultimatum, stamping
            her foot.</p>
        <p>“I’m not going to boss you—I’m not going to associate
            with you ever again,” retorted Emily, disdainfully.</p>
        <p>“I’m glad to be rid of you—you proud, stuck-up, conceited,
            top-lofty <em>biped</em>,” cried Ilse. “Never you speak
            to me again. And don’t you go about Blair Water saying
            things about me, either.”</p>
        <p>This was unbearable to a girl who <em>never</em> “said things”
            about her friends or once-friends.</p>
        <p>“I’m not going to <em>say</em> things about you,” said Emily
            deliberately. “I am just going to <em>think</em> them.”</p>
        <p>This was far more aggravating than speech and Emily
            knew it. Ilse was driven quite frantic by it. Who knew
            what unearthly things Emily might be thinking about
            her any time she took the notion to? Ilse had already
            discovered what a fertile invention Emily had.</p>
        <p>“Do you suppose I care what you think, you insignificant
            serpent? Why, you haven’t <em>any</em> sense.”</p>
        <p>“I’ve got something then that’s far better,” said Emily,
            with a maddening superior smile. “Something that <em>you</em>
            can <em>never</em> have, Ilse Burnley.”</p>
        <p>Ilse doubled her fists as if she would like to demolish
            Emily by physical force.</p>
        <p>“If I couldn’t write better poetry than you, I’d hang
            myself,” she derided.</p>
        <p>“I’ll lend you a dime to buy a rope,” said Emily.</p>
        <p>Ilse glared at her, vanquished.</p>
        <p>“You go to the devil!” she said.</p>
        <p>Emily got up and went, not to the devil, but back to
            New Moon. Ilse relieved <em>her</em> feelings by knocking the
            boards of their china closet down, and kicking their
            “moss gardens” to pieces, and departed also.</p>
        <p>Emily felt exceedingly badly. Here was another
            friendship destroyed—a friendship, too, that had been<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_124">124</a></span>
            very delightful and satisfying. Ilse <em>had</em> been a splendid
            chum—there was no doubt about that. After Emily had
            cooled down she went to the dormer window and cried.</p>
        <p>“Wretched, wretched me!” she sobbed, dramatically,
            but very sincerely.</p>
        <p>Yet the bitterness of her break with Rhoda was not
            present. <em>This</em> quarrel was fair and open and above-board.
            She had not been stabbed in the back. But of
            course she and Ilse would never be chums again. You
            couldn’t be chums with a person who called you a chit
            and a biped, and a serpent, and told you to go to the
            devil. The thing was impossible. And besides, Ilse
            could <em>never</em> forgive <em>her</em>—for Emily was honest enough
            to admit to herself that she had been very aggravating,
            too.</p>
        <p>Yet, when Emily went to the playhouse next morning,
            bent on retrieving her share of broken dishes and boards,
            there was Ilse, skipping around, hard at work, with all
            the shelves back in place, the moss garden re-made, and a
            beautiful parlour laid out and connected with the living-room
            by a spruce arch.</p>
        <p>“Hello, you. Here’s your parlour and I hope you’ll
            be satisfied now,” she said gaily. “What’s kept you so
            long? I thought you were never coming.”</p>
        <p>This rather posed Emily after her tragic night, wherein
            she had buried her second friendship and wept over its
            grave. She was not prepared for so speedy a resurrection.
            As far as Ilse was concerned it seemed as if no
            quarrel had ever taken place.</p>
        <p>“Why, that was <em>yesterday</em>,” she said in amazement,
            when Emily, rather distantly, referred to it. Yesterday
            and to-day were two entirely different things in Ilse’s philosophy.
            Emily accepted it—she found she had to.
            Ilse, it transpired, could no more help flying into tantrums
            now and then than she could help being jolly and affectionate
            between them. What amazed Emily, in whom
            things were bound to rankle for a time, was the way in<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_125">125</a></span>
            which Ilse appeared to forget a quarrel the moment it
            was over. To be called a serpent and a crocodile one
            minute and hugged and darling-ed the next was somewhat
            disconcerting until time and experience took the
            edge off it.</p>
        <p>“Aren’t I nice enough between times to make up for
            it?” demanded Ilse. “Dot Payne never flies into tempers,
            but would you like <em>her</em> for a chum?”</p>
        <p>“No, she’s too stupid,” admitted Emily.</p>
        <p>“And Rhoda Stuart is never out of temper, but you
            got enough of <em>her</em>. Do you think I’d ever treat you as
            she did?”</p>
        <p>No, Emily had no doubt on this point. Whatever Ilse
            was or was not, she was loyal and true.</p>
        <p>And certainly Rhoda Stuart and Dot Payne compared
            to Ilse were “as moonlight unto sunlight and as water
            unto wine”—or would have been if Emily had as yet
            known anything more of her Tennyson than the <i>Bugle
                Song</i>.</p>
        <p>“You can’t have everything,” said Ilse. “I’ve got
            Dad’s temper and that’s all there is to it. Wait till you
            see <em>him</em> in one of his rages.”</p>
        <p>Emily had not seen this so far. She had often been
            down in the Burnley’s house but on the few occasions
            when Dr. Burnley had been home he had ignored her
            save for a curt nod. He was a busy man, for, whatever
            his shortcomings were, his skill was unquestioned and
            the bounds of his practice extended far. By the sickbed
            he was as gentle and sympathetic as he was brusque
            and sarcastic away from it. As long as you were ill
            there was nothing Dr. Burnley would not do for you;
            once you were well he had apparently no further use for
            you. He had been absorbed all through July trying to
            save Teddy Kent’s life up at the Tansy Patch. Teddy
            was out of danger now and able to be up, but his improvement
            was not speedy enough to satisfy Dr. Burnley.
            One day he held up Emily and Ilse, who were heading<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_126">126</a></span>
            through the lawn to the pond, with fishing-hooks and a
            can of fat, abominable worms—the latter manipulated
            solely by Ilse—and ordered them to betake themselves up
            to the Tansy Patch and play with Teddy Kent.</p>
        <p>“He’s lonesome and moping. Go and cheer him up,”
            said the doctor.</p>
        <p>Ilse was rather loth to go. She liked Teddy, but it
            seemed she did not like his mother. Emily was secretly
            not averse. She had seen Teddy Kent but once, at Sunday
            School the day before he was taken seriously ill, and
            she had liked his looks. It had seemed that he liked
            hers, too, for she caught him staring shyly at her over
            the intervening pews several times. He was very handsome,
            Emily decided. She liked his thick, dark-brown
            hair and his black-browed blue eyes, and for the first
            time it occurred to her that it might be rather nice to have
            a boy playmate, too. Not a “beau” of course. Emily
            hated the school jargon that called a boy your “beau” if
            he happened to give you a pencil or an apple and picked
            you out frequently for his partner in the games.</p>
        <p>“Teddy’s nice but his mother is queer,” Ilse told her
            on their way to the Tansy Patch. “She never goes out
            anywhere—not even to church—but I guess it’s because
            of the scar on her face. They’re not Blair Water people—they’ve
            only been living at the Tansy Patch since last
            fall. They’re poor and proud and not many people visit
            them. But Teddy is awfully nice, so if his mother gives
            us some black looks we needn’t mind.”</p>
        <p>Mrs. Kent gave them no black looks, though her reception
            was rather distant. Perhaps she, too, had received
            some orders from the doctor. She was a tiny
            creature, with enormous masses of dull, soft, silky, fawn
            hair, dark, mournful eyes, and a broad scar running
            slantwise across her pale face. Without the scar she
            must have been pretty, and she had a voice as soft and
            uncertain as the wind in the tansy. Emily, with her<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_127">127</a></span>
            instinctive faculty of sizing up people she met, felt that
            Mrs. Kent was not a happy woman.</p>
        <p>The Tansy Patch was east of the Disappointed House,
            between the Blair Water and the sand-dunes. Most
            people considered it a bare, lonely, neglected place, but
            Emily thought it was fascinating. The little clap-boarded
            house topped a small hill, over which tansy grew in a
            hard, flaunting, aromatic luxuriance, rising steeply and
            abruptly from a main road. A straggling rail fence, almost
            smothered in wild rosebushes, bounded the domain,
            and a sagging, ill-used little gate gave ingress from the
            road. Stones were let into the side of the hill for steps
            up to the front door. Behind the house was a tumble-down
            little barn, and a field of flowering buckwheat,
            creamy green, sloping down to the Blair Water. In front
            was a crazy veranda around which a brilliant band of
            red poppies held up their enchanted cups.</p>
        <p>Teddy was unfeignedly glad to see them, and they had
            a happy afternoon together. There was some colour in
            Teddy’s clear olive skin when it ended and his dark-blue
            eyes were brighter. Mrs. Kent took in these signs
            greedily and asked the girls to come back, with an eagerness
            that was yet not cordiality. But they had found
            the Tansy Patch a charming place and were glad to go
            again. For the rest of the vacation there was hardly a
            day when they did not go up to it—preferably in the long,
            smoky, delicious August evenings when the white moths
            sailed over the tansy plantation and the golden twilight
            faded into dusk and purple over the green slopes beyond
            and fireflies lighted their goblin torches by the pond.
            Sometimes they played games in the tansy patch, when
            Teddy and Emily somehow generally found themselves
            on the same side and then no more than a match for agile,
            quick-witted Ilse; sometimes Teddy took them to the
            barn loft and showed them his little collection of drawings.
            Both girls thought them very wonderful without<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_128">128</a></span>
            knowing in the least how wonderful they really were.
            It seemed like magic to see Teddy take a pencil and bit
            of paper and with a few quick strokes of his slim brown
            fingers bring out a sketch of Ilse or Emily or Smoke or
            Buttercup, that looked ready to speak—or meow.</p>
        <p>Smoke and Buttercup were the Tansy Patch cats.
            Buttercup was a chubby, yellow, delightful creature hardly
            out of kittenhood. Smoke was a big Maltese and an
            aristocrat from the tip of his nose to the tip of his tail.
            There was no doubt whatever that he belonged to the
            cat caste of Vere de Vere. He had emerald eyes and a
            coat of plush. The only white thing about him was an
            adorable dicky.</p>
        <p>Emily thought of all the pleasant hours spent at the
            Tansy Patch the pleasantest were those, when, tired with
            play, they all three sat on the crazy veranda steps in the
            mystery and enchantment of the borderland ’tween light
            and dark when the little clump of spruce behind the barn
            looked like beautiful, dark, phantom trees. The clouds of
            the west faded into grey and a great round yellow moon
            rose over the fields to be reflected brokenly in the pond,
            where the Wind Woman was making wonderful, woven
            lights and shadows.</p>
        <p>Mrs. Kent never joined them, though Emily had a
            creepy conviction that she was watching them stealthily
            from behind the kitchen blind. Teddy and Ilse sang
            school ditties, and Ilse recited, and Emily told stories; or
            they sat in happy silence, each anchored in some secret
            port of dreams, while the cats chased each other madly
            over the hill and through the tansy, tearing round and
            round the house like possessed creatures. They would
            spring up at the children with sudden pounces and spring
            as suddenly away. Their eyes gleamed like jewels, their
            tails swayed like plumes. They were palpitating with
            nervous, stealthy life.</p>
        <p>“Oh, isn’t it good to be alive—like this?” Emily said
            once. “Wouldn’t it be dreadful if one had never lived?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_129">129</a></span></p>
        <p>Still, existence was not wholly unclouded—Aunt Elizabeth
            took care of that. Aunt Elizabeth only permitted
            the visits to the Tansy Patch under protest, and because
            Dr. Burnley had ordered them.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth does not aprove of Teddy,” Emily
            wrote in one of her letters to her father—which epistles
            were steadily mutiplying on the old garret sofa shelf.
            “The first time I asked her if I might go and play with
            Teddy she looked at me <em>severely</em> and said, Who is this
            Teddy person. We do not know anything about these
            Kents. Remember, Emily, the Murrays do not assosiate
            with every one. I said I am a Starr—I am not a Murray,
            you said so yourself. Dear Father I did not mean
            to be impertnent but Aunt Elizabeth said I was and
            would not speak to me the rest of the day. She seemed
            to think that was a very bad punishment but I did not
            mind it much only it is rather unpleasant to have your
            own family preserve a disdaneful silence towards you.
            But since then she lets me go to the Tansy Patch because
            Dr. Burnley came and told her to. Dr. Burnley has a
            <em>strange inflewence</em> over Aunt Elizabeth. I do not understand
            it. Rhoda said once that Aunt Elizabeth hoped Dr.
            Burnley and Aunt Laura would make a match of it—which,
            you know means get married—but that is not
            so. Mrs. Thomas Anderson was here one afternoon to
            tea. (Mrs. Thomas Anderson is a big fat woman and
            her grandmother was a Murray and there is nothing else
            to say about <em>her</em>.) She asked Aunt Elizabeth if she
            thought Dr. Burnley would marry again and Aunt Elizabeth
            said no, he would not and she did not think it right
            for people to marry a second time. Mrs. Anderson said
            Sometimes I have thought he would take Laura. Aunt
            Elizabeth just swept her a hawty glance. There is no
            use in denying it, there are times when I am very proud
            of Aunt Elizabeth, even if I do not like her.
        </p>
        <p>“Teddy is a very nice boy, Father. I think you would
            aprove of him. Should there be two p’s in aprove?<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_130">130</a></span>
            He can make splendid pictures and he is going to be a
            famus artist some day, and then he is going to paint my
            portrate. He keeps his pictures in the barn loft because
            his mother doesn’t like to see them. He can whistle
            just like a bird. The Tansy Patch is a <em>very quante</em> place—espesially
            at night. I love the twilight there. We always
            have such fun in the twilight. The Wind Woman
            makes herself small in the tansy just like a tiny, tiny
            fairy and the cats are so queer and creepy and delightful
            then. They belong to Mrs. Kent and Teddy is afraid to
            pet them much for fear she will drown them. She
            drowned a kitten once because she thought he liked it
            better than her. But he didn’t because Teddy is <em>very
                much attatched</em> to his mother. He washes the dishes for
            her and helps her in all the house work. Ilse says the
            boys in school call him sissy for that but I think it is
            noble and manley of him. Teddy wishes she would let
            him have a dog but she wont. I have thought Aunt
            Elizabeth was tirannical but Mrs. Kent is far worse in
            some ways. But then she loves Teddy and Aunt Elizabeth
            does not love me.</p>
        <p>“But Mrs. Kent doesn’t like Ilse or me. She never
            says so but we <em>feel</em> it. She never asks us to stay to tea—and
            we’ve always been so polite to her. I believe she
            is jellus of us because Teddy likes us. Teddy gave me
            the sweetest picture of the Blair Water he had painted
            on a big white cowhawk shell but he said I mustn’t let
            his mother know about it because she would cry. Mrs.
            Kent is a very misterious person, very like some people
            you read of in books. I like misterious people but not
            too close. Her eyes always look hungry though she has
            plenty to eat. She never goes anywhere because she has
            a scar on her face where she was burned with a lamp
            exploding. It made my blood run cold, dear Father.
            How thankful I am that Aunt Elizabeth only burns candles.
            Some of the Murray tradishuns are very sensible.
            Mrs. Kent is very relijus—what she calls relijus.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_131">131</a></span>
            She prays even in the middle of the day. Teddy says
            that before he was born into this world he lived in another
            one where there were two suns, one red and one
            blue. The days were red and the nights blue. I don’t
            know where he got the idea but it sounds atractive to
            me. And he says the brooks run honey instead of
            water. But what did you do when you were thirsty, I
            said. Oh, we were never thirsty there. But I think I
            would <em>like</em> to be thirsty because then cold water tastes
            so good. <em>I</em> would like to live in the moon. It must be
            such a nice silvery place.</p>
        <p>“Ilse says Teddy ought to like her best because there is
            more fun in her than in me but that is not true. There
            is just as much fun in me when my conshence doesn’t
            bother me. I guess Ilse wants Teddy to like her best but
            she is not a jellus girl.</p>
        <p>“I am glad to say that Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt Laura
            both aprove of my friendship with Ilse. It is so seldom
            they aprove of the same thing. I am getting used to
            fighting with Ilse now and don’t mind it much. Besides
            I can fight pretty well myself when my blood is up.
            We fight about once a week but we make up right away
            and Ilse says things would be dull if there was never a
            row. I would like it better without rows but you can
            never tell what will make Ilse mad. She never gets mad
            twice over the same thing. She calls me dreadful names.
            Yesterday she called me a lousy lizard and a toothless
            viper. But somehow I didn’t mind it much because I
            knew I wasn’t lousy or toothless and she knew it too.
            I don’t call names because that is unladylike but I smile
            and that makes Ilse far madder than if I skowled and
            stamped as she does, and that is why I do it. Aunt
            Laura says I must be careful not to pick up the words
            Ilse uses and try to set her a good example because the
            poor child has no one to look after her propperly. I
            wish I could use some of her words because they are so
            striking. She gets them from her father. I think my<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_132">132</a></span>
            aunts are too perticular. One night when the Rev. Mr.
            Dare was here to tea I used the word bull in my conversashun.
            I said Ilse and I were afraid to go through Mr.
            James Lee’s pasture where the old well was because he
            had a cross bull there. After Mr. Dare had gone Aunt
            Elizabeth gave me an awful skolding and told me I was
            never to use <em>that word</em> again. But she had been talking
            of tigers at tea—in connexshun with missionaries—and
            I can’t understand why it is more disgraceful to talk about
            bulls than tigers. Of course bulls are feroshus animals
            but so are tigers. But Aunt Elizabeth says I am always
            disgracing them when they have company. When Mrs.
            Lockwood was here from Shrewsbury last week they
            were talking about Mrs. Foster Beck, who is a bride, and
            I said Dr. Burnley thought she was devilishly pretty.
            Aunt Elizabeth said EMILY in an awful tone. She was
            pale with rath. Dr. Burnley said it, I cryed, I am only
            kwoting. And Dr. Burnley did say it the day I stayed to
            dinner with Ilse and Dr. Jameson was there from
            Shrewsbury. I saw Dr. Burnley in one of his rages that
            afternoon over something Mrs. Simms had done in his
            office. It was a groosome sight. His big yellow eyes
            blazed and he tore about and kicked over a chair and
            threw a mat at the wall and fired a vase out of the window
            and said <em>terrible things</em>. I sat on the sofa and stared
            at him like one fassinated. It was so interesting I was
            sorry when he cooled down which he soon did because
            he is like Ilse and never stays mad long. He never gets
            mad at Ilse though. Ilse says she wishes he would—it
            would be better than being taken no notis of. She is as
            much of an orfan as I am, poor child. Last Sunday
            she went to church with her old faded blue dress on.
            There was a tare right in front of it. Aunt Laura
            wepped when she came home and then spoke to Mrs.
            Simms about it because she did not dare speak to Dr.
            Burnley. Mrs. Simms was cross and said it was not her
            place to look after Ilses close but she said she had got Dr.<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_133">133</a></span>
            Burnley to get Ilse a nice sprigged muslin dress and Ilse
            had got egg stane on it, and when Mrs. Simms skolded
            her for being so careless Ilse flew into a rage and went
            upstairs and tore the muslin dress to pieces, and Mrs.
            Simms said she wasn’t going to bother her head again
            about a child like that and there was nothing for her to
            ware but her old blue but Mrs. Simms didn’t know it
            was tore. So I sneaked Ilses dress over to New Moon
            and Aunt Laura mended it neetly and hid the tare with
            a pocket. Ilse said she tore up her muslin dress one of
            the days she didn’t believe in God and didn’t care what
            she did. Ilse found a mouse in her bed one night and
            she just shook it out and jumped in. Oh, how brave.
            I could never be as brave as that. It is not true that Dr.
            Burnley never smiles. I have seen him do it but not
            often. He just smiles with his lips but not his eyes and
            it makes me feel uncomfortable. Mostly he laughs in a
            horrid sarkastic way like <em>Jolly Jim’s</em> uncle.</p>
        <p>“We had barley soup for dinner that day—very watery.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Laura is giving me five cents a week for washing
            the dishes. I can only spend one cent of it and the
            other four have to be put in the toad bank in the sitting-room
            on the mantel. The toad is made of brass and sits
            on top of the bank and you put the cents in his mouth
            one at a time. He swallows them and they drop into the
            bank. It’s very fassinating (I should not write fassinating
            again because you told me I must not use the same
            word too often but I cant think of any other that deskribes
            my feelings so well). The toad bank is Aunt
            Laura’s but she said I could use it. I just hugged her.
            Of course I never hug Aunt Elizabeth. She is too rijid
            and bony. She does not aprove of Aunt Laura paying
            me for washing dishes. I tremble to think what she
            would say if she knew Cousin Jimmy gave me a whole
            dollar on the sly last week.</p>
        <p>“I wish he had not given me so much. It worrys me.
            It is an awful responsibility. It will be so diffikult to<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_134">134</a></span>
            spend it wisely also without Aunt Elizabeth finding out
            about it. I hope I shall never have a million
            dollars. I am sure it would crush me utterly. I keep
            my dollar hid on the shelf with my letters and I put it
            in an old envelope and wrote on it Cousin Jimmy Murray
            gave me this so that if I died suddenly and Aunt Elizabeth
            found it she would know I came by it honestly.</p>
        <p>“Now that the days are getting cool Aunt Elizabeth
            makes me wear my thick flannel petticoat. I hate it. It
            makes me so bunchy. But Aunt Elizabeth says I must
            wear it because you died of consumption. I wish close
            could be both graceful and helthy. I read the story of
            Red Riding Hood to-day. I think the wolf was the most
            intresting caracter in it. Red Riding Hood was a
            stupid little thing so easily fooled.</p>
        <p>“I wrote two poems yesterday. One was short and
            entitelled Lines Adressed to a blue-eyed-grass flower
            gathered in the Old Orchard. Here it is.</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">Sweet little flower thy modest face</div>
                    <div class="line">Is ever lifted tords the sky</div>
                    <div class="line">And a reflexshun of its face</div>
                    <div class="line">Is caught within thine own blue eye.</div>
                    <div class="line">The meadow queens are tall and fair</div>
                    <div class="line">The columbines are lovely too</div>
                    <div class="line">But the poor talent I possess</div>
                    <div class="line">Shall laurel thee my flower of blue.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>“The other poem was long and I wrote it on a letter-bill.
            It is called The Monark of the Forest. The Monark
            is the big birch in Lofty John’s bush. I love that
            bush so much it hurts. Do you understand that kind of
            hurting. Ilse likes it too and we play there most of the
            time when we are not at the Tansy Patch. We have
            three paths in it. We call them the To-day Road, the
            Yesterday Road and the To-morrow Road. The To-day
            Road is by the brook and we call it that because it is<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_135">135</a></span>
            lovely now. The Yesterday Road is out in the stumps
            where Lofty John cut some trees down and we call it that
            because it used to be lovely. The To-morrow Road is
            just a tiny path in the maple clearing and we call it that
            because it is going to be lovely some day, when the maples
            grow bigger. But oh Father dear I haven’t forgotten
            the dear old trees down home. I always think of them
            after I go to bed. But I am happy here. It isn’t wrong
            to be happy, is it Father. Aunt Elizabeth says I got over
            being homesick very quick but I am often homesick <em>inside</em>.
            I have got akwanted with Lofty John. Ilse is a
            great friend of his and often goes there to watch him
            working in his carpenter shop. He says he has made
            enough ladders to get to heaven without the priest but
            that is just his joke. He is really a very devowt Catholic
            and goes to the chapel at White Cross every Sunday.
            I go with Ilse though perhaps I ought not to when he is
            an enemy of my family. He is of stately baring and refined
            manners—very sivil to me but I don’t always like
            him. When I ask him a serius question he always winks
            over my head when he ansers. That is insulting. Of
            course I never ask any questions on relijus subjects but
            Ilse does. She likes him but she says he would burn us
            all at the stake if he had the power. She asked him right
            out if he wouldn’t and he winked at me and said Oh, we
            wouldn’t burn nice pretty little Protestants like you. We
            would only burn the old ugly ones. That was a frivellus
            reply. Mrs. Lofty John is a nice woman and not at
            all proud. She looks just like a little rosy rinkled
            apple.</p>
        <p>“On rainy days we play at Ilse’s. We can slide down
            the bannisters and do what we like. Nobody cares only
            when the doctor is home we have to be quiet because he
            cant bear any noise in the house except what he makes
            himself. The roof is flat and we can get out on it
            through a door in the garret ceiling. It is very exiting<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_136">136</a></span>
            to be up on the roof of a house. We had a yelling contest
            there the other night to see which could yell the loudest.
            To my surprise I found I could. You never can
            tell what you can do till you try. But too many people
            heard us and Aunt Elizabeth was very angry. She asked
            me what made me do such a thing. That is an okward
            question because often I cant tell what makes me do
            things. Sometimes I do them just to find out what I
            feel like doing them. And sometimes I do them because
            I want to have some exiting things to tell my grandchildren.
            Is it impropper to talk about haveing grandchildren.
            I have discovered that it is impropper to talk
            about haveing children. One evening when people were
            here Aunt Laura said to me quite kindly What are you
            thinking so ernestly about, Emily, and I said I am picking
            names for my children. I mean to have ten. And
            after the company had gone Aunt Elizabeth said to Aunt
            Laura <em>icilly</em> I think it will be better in the future Laura
            if you do <em>not</em> ask that child what she is thinking of. If
            Aunt Laura doesnt I shall be sorry because when I have
            an intresting thought I like to tell it.</p>
        <p>“School begins again next week. Ilse is going to ask
            Miss Brownell if I can sit with her. I intend to act as
            if Rhoda was not there at all. Teddy is going too.
            Dr. Burnley says he is well enough to go though his
            mother doesnt like the idea. Teddy says she never likes
            to have him go to school but she is glad that he hates
            Miss Brownell. Aunt Laura says the right way to end
            a letter to a dear friend is yours affeckshunately.</p>
        <p class="mt0 mb0">“So I am yours very affeckshunately.</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>Emily Byrd Starr.</em></p>
        <p>“P. S. Because <em>you</em> are my <em>very dearest friend still</em>,
            Father. Ilse says she loves me best of anything in the
            world and her red leather boots that Mrs. Simms gave her
            next.”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_137">137</a></span>
            <h2><a id="xiii" />CHAPTER XIII<br />
                <span>A Daughter of Eve</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">N</span>EW MOON was noted for its apples and on that
            first autumn of Emily’s life there both the “old”
            and the “new” orchards bore a bumper crop. In the new
            were the titled and pedigreed apples; and in the old the
            seedlings, unknown to catalogues, that yet had a flavour
            wildly sweet and all their own. There was no taboo on
            any apple and Emily was free to eat all she wanted of
            each and every kind,—the only prohibition being that she
            must not take any to bed with her. Aunt Elizabeth, very
            properly, did not want her bed messed up with apple
            seeds; and Aunt Laura had a horror of any one eating
            apples in the dark lest they might eat an apple worm into
            the bargain. Emily, therefore, should have been able
            fully to satisfy her appetite for apples at home; but there
            is a certain odd kink in human nature by reason of which
            the flavour of the apples belonging to somebody else is always
            vastly superior to our own—as the crafty serpent
            of Eden very well knew. Emily, like most people, possessed
            this kink, and consequently thought that nowhere
            were there such delicious apples as those belonging to
            Lofty John. He was in the habit of keeping a long row
            of apples on one of the beams in his workshop and it was
            understood that she and Ilse might help themselves freely
            whenever they visited that charming, dusty, shaving-carpeted
            spot. Three varieties of Lofty John’s apples
            were their especial favourites—the “scabby apples,” that
            looked as if they had leprosy but were of unsurpassed deliciousness
            under their queerly blotched skins; the “little
            red apples,” scarcely bigger than a crab, deep crimson all
            over and glossy as satin, that had such a sweet, nutty<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_138">138</a></span>
            flavour; and the big green “sweet apples” that children
            usually thought the best of all. Emily considered
            that day wasted whose low descending sun had not
            beheld her munching one of Lofty John’s big green
            sweets.</p>
        <p>In the back of her mind Emily knew quite well that she
            should not be going to Lofty John’s at all. To be sure,
            she had never been forbidden to go—simply because it
            had never occurred to her aunts that an inmate of New
            Moon could so forget the beloved old family feud between
            the houses of Murray and Sullivan belonging to
            two generations back. It was an inheritance that any
            proper Murray would live up to as a matter of course.
            But when Emily was off with that wild little Ishmaelite
            of an Ilse, traditions lost their power under the allurement
            of Lofty John’s “reds” and “scabs.”</p>
        <p>She wandered rather lonesomely into his workshop one
            September evening at twilight. She had been alone since
            she came from school; her aunts and Cousin Jimmy had
            gone to Shrewsbury, promising to be back by sunset.
            Ilse was away also, her father, prodded thereto by Mrs.
            Simms, having taken her to Charlottetown to get her a
            winter coat. Emily liked being alone very well at first.
            She felt quite important over being in charge of New
            Moon. She ate the supper Aunt Laura had left on the
            cook-house dresser for her and she went into the dairy
            and skimmed six lovely big pans of milk. She had no
            business at all to do this but she had always hankered to
            do it and this was too good a chance to be missed. She
            did it beautifully and nobody ever knew—each aunt supposing
            the other had done it—and so she was never
            scolded for it. This does not point any particular moral,
            of course; in a proper yarn Emily should either have been
            found out and punished for disobedience or been driven
            by an uneasy conscience to confess; but I am sorry—or
            ought to be—to have to state that Emily’s conscience
            never worried her about the matter at all. Still, she was<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_139">139</a></span>
            doomed to suffer enough that night from an entirely different
            cause, to balance all her little peccadillos.</p>
        <p>By the time the cream was skimmed and poured into
            the big stone crock and well stirred—Emily didn’t forget
            <em>that</em>, either—it was after sunset and still nobody had
            come home. Emily didn’t like the idea of going alone
            into the big, dusky, echoing house; so she hied her to
            Lofty John’s shop, which she found unoccupied, though
            the plane halted midway on a board indicated that Lofty
            John had been working there quite recently and would
            probably return. Emily sat down on a round section of
            a huge log and looked around to see what she could get
            to eat. There was a row of “reds” and “scabs” clean
            across the side of the shop but no “sweet” among them;
            and Emily felt that what she needed just then was a
            “sweet” and nothing else.
        </p>
        <p>Then she spied one—a huge one—the biggest “sweet”
            Emily had ever seen, all by itself on one of the steps of
            the stair leading up to the loft. She climbed up, possessed
            herself of it and ate it out of hand. She was
            gnawing happily at the core when Lofty John came in.
            He nodded to her with a seemingly careless glance
            around.</p>
        <p>“Just been in to get my supper,” he said. “The wife’s
            away so I had to get it myself.”</p>
        <p>He fell to planing in silence. Emily sat on the stairs,
            counting the seeds of the big “sweet”—you told your
            fortunes by the seeds—listening to the Wind Woman
            whistling elfishly through a knot hole in the loft, and
            composing a “Deskripshun of Lofty John’s Carpenter
            Shop By Lantern Light,” to be written later on a letter-bill.
            She was lost in a mental hunt for an accurate
            phrase to picture the absurd elongated shadow of Lofty
            John’s nose on the opposite wall when Lofty John
            whirled about, so suddenly that the shadow of his nose
            shot upward like a huge spear to the ceiling, and demanded
            in a startled voice,</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_140">140</a></span></p>
        <p>“What’s become av that big sweet apple that was on
            that stair?”</p>
        <p>“Why—I—I et it,” stammered Emily.</p>
        <p>Lofty John dropped his plane, threw up his hands, and
            looked at Emily with a horrified face.</p>
        <p>“The saints preserve us, child! Ye never et that apple—don’t
            tell me ye’ve gone and et <em>that</em> apple!”</p>
        <p>“Yes, I did,” said Emily uncomfortably. “I didn’t
            think it was any harm—I—”</p>
        <p>“Harm! Listen to her, will you? That apple was
            poisoned for the rats! They’ve been plaguing me life
            out here and I had me mind made up to finish their fun.
            And now you’ve et the apple—it would kill a dozen av ye
            in a brace of shakes.”</p>
        <p>Lofty John saw a white face and a gingham apron
            flash through the workshop and out into the dark.
            Emily’s first wild impulse was to get home at once—before
            she dropped dead. She tore across the field through
            the bush and the garden and dashed into the house. It
            was still silent and dark—nobody was home yet. Emily
            gave a bitter little shriek of despair—when they came
            they would find her stiff and cold, black in the face likely,
            everything in this dear world ended for her forever, all
            because she had eaten an apple which she thought she was
            perfectly welcome to eat. It wasn’t fair—she didn’t
            want to die.</p>
        <p>But she must. She only hoped desperately that some
            one would come before she was dead. It would be so
            terrible to die there all alone in that great, big, empty
            New Moon. She dared not try to go anywhere for help.
            It was too dark now and she would likely drop dead on
            the way. To die out there—alone—in the dark—oh,
            that would be too dreadful. It did not occur to her that
            anything could be done for her; she thought if you once
            swallowed poison that was the end of you.</p>
        <p>With hands shaking in panic she got a candle lighted.
            It wasn’t quite so bad then—you <em>could</em> face things in the<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_141">141</a></span>
            light. And Emily, pale, terrified, alone, was already deciding
            that this must be faced bravely. She must not
            shame the Starrs and the Murrays. She clenched her
            cold hands and tried to stop trembling. How long would
            it be before she died, she wondered. Lofty John had said
            the apple would kill her in a “brace of shakes.” What
            did that mean? How long was a brace of shakes?
            Would it hurt her to die? She had a vague idea that
            poison did hurt you awfully. Oh; and just a little while
            ago she had been so happy! She had thought she was
            going to live for years and write great poems and be
            famous like Mrs. Hemans. She had had a fight with
            Ilse the night before and hadn’t made it up yet—never
            could make it up now. And Ilse would feel so terribly.
            She must write her a note and forgive her. Was there
            time for that much? Oh, how cold her hands were!
            Perhaps that meant she was dying already. She had
            heard or read that your hands turned cold when you were
            dying. She wondered if her face was turning black.
            She grasped her candle and hurried up the stairs to the
            spare-room. There was a looking-glass there—the only
            one in the house hung low enough for her to see her reflection
            if she tipped the bottom of it back. Ordinarily
            Emily would have been frightened to death at the mere
            thought of going into that spare-room by dim, flickering
            candlelight. But the one great terror had swallowed up
            all lesser ones. She looked at her reflection, amid the
            sleek, black flow of her hair, in the upward-striking light
            on the dark background of the shadowy room. Oh, she
            was pale as the dead already. Yes, that was a dying face—there
            could be no doubt of it.</p>
        <p>Something rose up in Emily and took possession of
            her—some inheritance from the good old stock behind
            her. She ceased to tremble—she accepted her fate—with
            bitter regret, but calmly.</p>
        <p>“I don’t want to die but since I have to I’ll die as becomes
            a Murray,” she said. She had read a similar sentence<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_142">142</a></span>
            in a book and it came pat to the moment. And now
            she must hurry. That letter to Ilse must be written.
            Emily went to Aunt Elizabeth’s room first, to assure herself
            that her right-hand top bureau drawer was quite tidy;
            then she flitted up the garret stairs to her dormer corner.
            The great place was full of lurking, pouncing shadows
            that crowded about the little island of faint candlelight,
            but they had no terrors for Emily now.</p>
        <p>“And to think I was feeling so bad to-day because my
            petticoat was bunchy,” she thought, as she got one of her
            dear letter-bills—the last she would ever write on.
            There was no need to write to Father—she would see
            him soon—but Ilse must have her letter—dear, loving,
            jolly, hot-tempered Ilse, who, just the day before had
            shrieked insulting epithets after her and who would be
            haunted by remorse all her life for it.</p>
        <p class="mb0">“Dearest Ilse,” wrote Emily, her hand shaking a little
            but her lips firmly set. “I am going to die. I have been
            poisoned by an apple Lofty John had put for rats. I
            will never see you again, but I am writing this to tell you
            I love you and you are not to feel bad because you called
            me a skunk and a bloodthirsty mink yesterday. I forgive
            you, so do not worry over it. And I am sorry I told
            you that you were beneath contemt because I didn’t
            mean a word of it. I leave you all my share of the
            broken dishes in our playhouse and please tell Teddy
            good-bye for me. He will never be able to teach me how
            to put worms on a fish-hook now. I promised him I
            would learn because I did not want him to think I was a
            coward but I am glad I did not for I know what the worm
            feels like now. I do not feel sick yet but I dont know
            what the simptoms of poisoning are and Lofty John said
            there was enough to kill a dozen of me so I cant have
            long to live. If Aunt Elizabeth is willing you can have
            my necklace of Venetian beads. It is the only valuble
            possession I have. Don’t let anybody do anything to
            Lofty John because he did not mean to poison me and it<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_143">143</a></span>
            was all my own fault for being so greedy. Perhaps people
            will think he did it on purpose because I am a
            Protestant but I feel sure he did not and please tell him
            not to be hawnted by remorse. I think I feel a pain in
            my stomach now so I guess that the end draws ni. Fare
            well and remember her who died so young.</p>
        <p class="mt0 mb0 center">“Your own devoted,</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>Emily</em>.”</p>
        <p>As Emily folded up her letter-bill she heard the sound
            of wheels in the yard below. A moment later Elizabeth
            and Laura Murray were confronted in the kitchen by a
            tragic-faced little creature, grasping a guttering candle
            in one hand and a red letter-bill in the other.</p>
        <p>“Emily, what is the matter?” cried Aunt Laura.</p>
        <p>“I’m dying,” said Emily solemnly. “I et an apple
            Lofty John had poisoned for rats. I have only a few
            minutes to live, Aunt Laura.”</p>
        <p>Laura Murray dropped down on the black bench with
            her hand at her heart. Elizabeth turned as pale as Emily
            herself.</p>
        <p>“Emily, is this some play-acting of yours?” she demanded
            sternly.</p>
        <p>“No,” cried Emily, quite indignantly. “It’s the truth.
            Do you suppose a dying person would be play-acting?
            And oh, Aunt Elizabeth, please will you give this letter
            to Ilse—and please forgive me for being naughty—though
            I wasn’t always naughty when you thought I was—and
            don’t let any one see me after I’m dead if I turn
            black—especially Rhoda Stuart.”</p>
        <p>By this time Aunt Elizabeth was herself again.</p>
        <p>“How long ago is it since you ate that apple, Emily?”</p>
        <p>“About an hour.”</p>
        <p>“If you’d eaten a poisoned apple an hour ago you’d
            be dead or sick by now—”</p>
        <p>“Oh,” cried Emily transformed in a second. A wild,
            sweet hope sprang up in her heart—was there a chance<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_144">144</a></span>
            for her after all? Then she added despairingly, “But I
            felt another pain in my stomach just as I came downstairs.”</p>
        <p>“Laura,” said Aunt Elizabeth, “take this child out to
            the cook-house and give her a good dose of mustard and
            water at once. It will do no harm and <em>may</em> do some
            good, if there’s anything in this yarn of hers. I’m going
            down to the doctor’s—he may be back—but I’ll see
            Lofty John on the way.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth went out—and Aunt Elizabeth went
            out very quickly—if it had been any one else it might have
            been said she ran. As for Emily—well, Aunt Laura
            gave her that emetic in short order and two minutes later
            Emily had no doubt at all that she was dying then and
            there—and the sooner the better. When Aunt Elizabeth
            returned Emily was lying on the sofa in the kitchen,
            as white as the pillow under her head, and as limp as a
            faded lily.</p>
        <p>“Wasn’t the doctor home?” cried Aunt Laura desperately.</p>
        <p>“I don’t know—there’s no need of the doctor. I
            didn’t think there was from the first. It was just one
            of Lofty John’s jokes. He thought he’d give Emily a
            fright—just for fun—<em>his</em> idea of fun. March you off
            to bed, Miss Emily. You deserve all you’ve got for going
            over there to Lofty John’s at all and I don’t pity you
            a particle. I haven’t had such a turn for years.”</p>
        <p>“I <em>did</em> have a pain in my stomach,” wailed Emily, in
            whom fright and mustard-and-water combined had temporarily
            extinguished all spirit.</p>
        <p>“Any one who eats apples from dawn to dark must expect
            a few pains in her stomach. You won’t have any
            more to-night, I reckon—the mustard will remedy that.
            Take your candle and go.”</p>
        <p>“Well,” said Emily, getting unsteadily to her feet, “I
            <em>hate</em> that dod-gasted Lofty John.”
        </p>
        <p>“Emily!” said both aunts together.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_145">145</a></span></p>
        <p>“He <em>deserves</em> it,” said Emily vindictively.</p>
        <p>“Oh, Emily—that dreadful word you used!” Aunt
            Laura seemed curiously upset about something.</p>
        <p>“Why, what’s the matter with dod-gasted?” said
            Emily, quite mystified. “Cousin Jimmy uses it often,
            when things vex him. He used it to-day—he said that
            dod-gasted heifer had broken out of the graveyard pasture
            again.”</p>
        <p>“Emily,” said Aunt Elizabeth, with the air of one impaling
            herself on the easiest horn of a dilemma, “your
            Cousin Jimmy is a man—and men sometimes use expressions,
            in the heat of anger, that are not proper for little
            girls.”</p>
        <p>“But what <em>is</em> the matter with dod-gasted?” persisted
            Emily. “It isn’t a swear word, is it? And if it isn’t,
            why can’t I use it?”</p>
        <p>“It isn’t a—a ladylike word,” said Aunt Laura.</p>
        <p>“Well, then, I won’t use it any more,” said Emily resignedly,
            “but Lofty John <em>is</em> dod-gasted.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Laura laughed so much after Emily had gone upstairs
            that Aunt Elizabeth told her a woman of her age
            should have more sense.</p>
        <p>“Elizabeth, you <em>know</em> it was funny,” protested Laura.</p>
        <p>Emily being safely out of sight, Elizabeth permitted
            herself a somewhat grim smile.</p>
        <p>“I told Lofty John a few plain truths—he’ll not go
            telling children they’re poisoned again in a hurry. I left
            him fairly dancing with rage.”</p>
        <p>Worn out, Emily fell asleep as soon as she was in bed;
            but an hour later she awakened. Aunt Elizabeth had not
            yet come to bed so the blind was still up and Emily saw a
            dear, friendly star winking down at her. Far away the
            sea moaned alluringly. Oh, it was nice just to be alone
            and to be alive. Life tasted good to her again—“tasted
            like more,” as Cousin <a id="Jimmy1" /><ins title="Original has 'Jimmie'">Jimmy</ins> said. She could have a
            chance to write more letter-bills, and poetry—Emily already
            saw a yard of verses entitled “Thoughts<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_146">146</a></span>
            of One Doomed to Sudden Death”—and play
            with Ilse and Teddy—scour the barns with Saucy
            Sal, watch Aunt Laura skim cream in the dairy
            and help cousin Jimmy garden,—read books in Emily’s
            Bower and trot along the To-day Road—but
            <em>not</em> visit Lofty John’s workshop. She determined that
            she would never have anything to do with Lofty John
            again after his diabolical cruelty. She felt so indignant
            with him for frightening her—after they had been such
            good friends, too—that she could not go to sleep until
            she had composed an account of her death by poison, of
            Lofty John being tried for her murder and condemned to
            death, and of his being hanged on a gibbet as lofty as
            himself, Emily being present at the dreadful scene, in
            spite of the fact that she was dead by his act. When she
            had finally cut him down and buried him with obloquy—the
            tears streaming down her face out of sympathy for
            Mrs. Lofty John—she forgave him. Very likely he was
            not dod-gasted after all.
        </p>
        <p>She wrote it all down on a letter-bill in the garret the
            next day.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xiv" />CHAPTER XIV<br />
                <span>Fancy Fed</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">I</span>N October Cousin Jimmy began to boil the pigs’ potatoes—unromantic
            name for a most romantic occupation—or
            so it appeared to Emily, whose love of the beautiful
            and picturesque was satisfied as it had never yet been
            on those long, cool, starry twilights of the waning year at
            New Moon.</p>
        <p>There was a clump of spruce-trees in a corner of the
            old orchard, and under them an immense iron pot was
            hung over a circle of large stones—a pot so big that an<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_147">147</a></span>
            ox could have been comfortably stewed in it. Emily
            thought it must have come down from the days of fairy
            tales and been some giant’s porridge pot; but Cousin
            Jimmy told her that it was only a hundred years old and
            old Hugh Murray had had it sent out from England.</p>
        <p>“We’ve used it ever since to boil the potatoes for the
            New Moon pigs,” he said. “Blair Water folks think it
            old-fashioned; they’ve all got boiler-houses now, with
            built-in boilers; but as long as Elizabeth’s boss at New
            Moon we’ll use this.”</p>
        <p>Emily was sure no built-in boiler could have the charm
            of the big pot. She helped Cousin <a id="Jimmy2" /><ins title="Original has 'Jimmie'">Jimmy</ins> fill it
            full of
            potatoes after she came from school; then, when supper
            was over, Cousin Jimmy lighted the fire under it and
            puttered about it all the evening. Sometimes he poked
            the fire—Emily loved that part of the performance—sending
            glorious streams of rosy sparks upward into the
            darkness; sometimes he stirred the potatoes with a long
            pole, looking, with his queer, forked grey beard and
            belted “jumper,” just like some old gnome or troll of
            northland story mixing the contents of a magical caldron;
            and sometimes he sat beside Emily on the grey granite
            boulder near the pot and recited his poetry for her.
            Emily liked this best of all, for Cousin Jimmy’s poetry
            was surprisingly good—at least in spots—and Cousin
            Jimmy had “fit audience though few” in this slender
            little maiden with her pale eager face and rapt eyes.</p>
        <p>They were an odd couple and they were perfectly
            happy together. Blair Water people thought Cousin
            Jimmy a failure and a mental weakling. But he dwelt
            in an ideal world of which none of them knew anything.
            He had recited his poems a hundred times thus, as he
            boiled the pigs’ potatoes; the ghosts of a score of autumns
            haunted the clump of spruces for him. He was an
            odd, ridiculous figure enough, bent and wrinkled and unkempt,
            gesticulating awkwardly as he recited. But it
            was his hour; he was no longer “simple Jimmy Murray”<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_148">148</a></span>
            but a prince in his own realm. For a little while he was
            strong and young and splendid and beautiful, accredited
            master of song to a listening, enraptured world. None
            of his prosperous, sensible Blair Water neighbours ever
            lived through such an hour. He would not have exchanged
            places with one of them. Emily, listening to
            him, felt vaguely that if it had not been for that unlucky
            push into the New Moon well, this queer little man beside
            her might have stood in the presence of kings.</p>
        <p>But Elizabeth <em>had</em> pushed him into the New Moon
            well and as a consequence he boiled pigs’ potatoes and recited
            to Emily—Emily, who wrote poetry too, and loved
            these evenings so much that she could not sleep after she
            went to bed until she had composed a minute description
            of them. The flash came almost every evening over
            something or other. The Wind Woman swooped or
            purred in the tossing boughs above them—Emily had
            never been so near to seeing her; the sharp air was full of
            the pleasant tang of the burning spruce cones Cousin
            Jimmy shovelled under the pot; Emily’s furry kitten,
            Mike II, frisked and scampered about like a small, charming
            demon of the night; the fire glowed with beautiful
            redness and allure through the gloom; there were nice
            whispery sounds everywhere; the “great big dark” lay
            spread around them full of mysteries that daylight never
            revealed; and over all a purple sky powdered with stars.</p>
        <p>Ilse and Teddy came, too, on some evenings. Emily
            always knew when Teddy was coming, for when he
            reached the old orchard he whistled his “call”—the one
            he used just for her—a funny, dear little call, like three
            clear bird notes, the first just medium pitch, the second
            higher, the third dropping away into lowness and sweetness
            long-drawn-out—like the echoes in the <i>Bugle Song</i>
            that went clearer and further in their dying. That call
            always had an odd effect on Emily; it seemed to her that
            it fairly drew the heart out of her body—and she <em>had</em> to
            follow it. She thought Teddy could have whistled her<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_149">149</a></span>
            clear across the world with those three magic notes.
            Whenever she heard it she ran quickly through the orchard
            and told Teddy whether Cousin Jimmy wanted him
            or not, because it was only on certain nights that Cousin
            Jimmy wanted anybody but her. He would never recite
            his poetry to Ilse or Teddy; but he told them fairy
            stories, and tales about the old dead-and-gone Murrays in
            the pond graveyard that were as queer, sometimes, as the
            fairy stories; and Ilse would recite too, doing better there
            than she ever did anywhere else; and sometimes Teddy
            lay sprawled out on the ground beside the big pot and
            drew pictures by the light of the fire—pictures of Cousin
            Jimmy stirring the potatoes—pictures of Ilse and Emily
            dancing hand in hand around it like two small witches,
            pictures of Mike’s cunning, little, whiskered face peering
            around the old boulder, pictures of weird, vague faces
            crowding in the darkness outside their enchanted circle.
            They had very wonderful evenings there, those four children.</p>
        <p>“Oh, don’t you like the world at night, Ilse?” Emily
            once said rapturously.</p>
        <p>Ilse glanced happily around her—poor little neglected
            Ilse, who found in Emily’s companionship what she had
            hungered for all her short life and who was, even now,
            being led by love into something of her rightful heritage.</p>
        <p>“Yes,” she said. “And I always believe there <em>is</em> a
            God when I’m here like this.”</p>
        <p>Then the potatoes were done—and Cousin Jimmy gave
            each of them one before he mixed in the bran; they broke
            them in pieces on plates of birch-bark, sprinkled them
            with salt which Emily had cached in a small box under
            the roots of the biggest spruce, and ate them with gusto.
            No banquet of gods was ever as delicious as those potatoes.
            Then finally came Aunt Laura’s kind, silvery voice
            calling through the frosty dark; Ilse and Teddy scampered
            homewards; and Emily captured Mike II and shut
            him up safely for the night in the New Moon dog-house<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_150">150</a></span>
            which had held no dog for years, but was still carefully
            preserved and whitewashed every spring. Emily’s heart
            would have broken if anything had happened to Mike II.</p>
        <p>“Old Kelly,” the tin pedlar, had given him to her.
            Old Kelly had come round through Blair Water every
            fortnight from May to November for thirty years,
            perched on the seat of a bright red pedlar’s wagon and
            behind a dusty, ambling, red pony of that peculiar gait
            and appearance pertaining to the ponies of country pedlars—a
            certain placid, unhasting leanness as of a nag
            that has encountered troubles of his own and has lived
            them down by sheer patience and staying power. From
            the bright red wagon proceeded a certain metallic rumbling
            and clinking as it bowled along, and two huge nests
            of tin pans on its flat, rope-encircled roof flashed back the
            sunlight so dazzlingly that Old Kelly seemed the beaming
            sun of a little planetary system all his own. A new
            broom, sticking up aggressively at each of the four corners
            gave the wagon a resemblance to a triumphal chariot.
            Emily hankered secretly for a ride in Old Kelly’s wagon.
            She thought it must be very delightful.</p>
        <p>Old Kelly and she were great friends. She liked his
            red, clean-shaven face under his plug hat, his nice,
            twinkly, blue eyes, his brush of upstanding, sandy hair,
            and his comical pursed-up mouth, the shape of which was
            partly due to nature and partly to much whistling. He
            always had a little three-cornered paper bag of “lemon
            drops” for her, or a candy stick of many colours, which
            he smuggled into her pocket when Aunt Elizabeth wasn’t
            looking. And he never forgot to tell her that he supposed
            she’d soon be thinking of getting married—for Old
            Kelly thought that the surest way to please a female creature
            of any age was to tease her about getting married.</p>
        <p>One day, instead of candy, he produced a plump grey
            kitten from the back drawer of his wagon and told her
            it was for her. Emily received the gift rapturously, but
            after Old Kelly had rattled and clattered away Aunt Elizabeth<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_151">151</a></span>
            told her they did not want any more cats at New
            Moon.</p>
        <p>“Oh, please let me keep it, Aunt Elizabeth,” Emily
            begged. “It won’t be a bit of bother to you. <em>I</em> have
            had experience in bringing up cats. And I’m so lonesome
            for a kitten. Saucy Sal is getting so wild running
            with the barn cats that I can’t ’sociate with her like I
            used to do—and she never was nice to cuddle. <em>Please</em>,
            Aunt Elizabeth.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth would not and did not please. She
            was in a very bad humour that day, anyhow,—nobody
            knew just why. In such a mood she was entirely unreasonable.
            She would not listen to anybody—Laura and
            Cousin Jimmy had to hold their tongues, and Cousin
            Jimmy was bidden to take the grey kitten down to the
            Blair Water and drown it. Emily burst into tears over
            this cruel command, and this aggravated Aunt Elizabeth
            still further. She was so cross that Cousin Jimmy dared
            not smuggle the kitten up to the barn as he had at first
            planned to do.</p>
        <p>“Take that beast down to the pond and throw it in
            and come back and tell me you’ve done it,” said Elizabeth
            angrily. “I mean to be obeyed—New Moon is not
            going to be made a dumping-ground for Old Jock Kelly’s
            superfluous cats.”</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy did as he was told and Emily would not
            eat any dinner. After dinner she stole mournfully away
            through the old orchard down the pasture to the pond.
            Just why she went she could not have told, but she felt
            that go she must. When she reached the bank of the
            little creek where Lofty John’s brook ran into Blair
            Water, she heard piteous shrieks; and there, marooned
            on a tiny islet of sere marsh grass in the creek, was an
            unhappy little beast, its soaking fur plastered against its
            sides, shivering and trembling in the wind of the sharp
            autumnal day. The old oat-bag in which Cousin Jimmy
            had imprisoned it was floating out into the pond.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_152">152</a></span></p>
        <p>Emily did not stop to think, or look for a board, or
            count the consequences. She plunged in the creek up to
            her knees, she waded out to the clump of grass and caught
            the kitten up. She was so hot with indignation that she
            did not feel the cold of the water or the chill of the wind
            as she ran back to New Moon. A suffering or tortured
            animal always filled her with such a surge of sympathy
            that it lifted her clean out of herself. She burst into the
            cook-house where Aunt Elizabeth was frying doughnuts.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth,” she cried, “the kitten wasn’t
            drowned after all—and I <em>am</em> going to keep it.”</p>
        <p>“You’re not,” said Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>Emily looked her aunt in the face. Again she felt that
            odd sensation that had come when Aunt Elizabeth
            brought the scissors to cut her hair.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth, this poor little kitten is cold and
            starving, and oh, so miserable. It has been suffering for
            hours. It shall <em>not</em> be drowned again.”</p>
        <p>Archibald Murray’s look was on her face and Archibald
            Murray’s tone was in her voice. This happened only
            when the deeps of her being were stirred by some peculiarly
            poignant emotion. Just now she was in an agony
            of pity and anger.</p>
        <p>When Elizabeth Murray saw her father looking at her
            out of Emily’s little white face, she surrendered without
            a struggle, rage at herself as she might afterwards for
            her weakness. It was her one vulnerable point. The
            thing might not have been so uncanny if Emily had resembled
            the Murrays. But to see the Murray look suddenly
            superimposed like a mask over alien features, was
            such a shock to her nerves that she could not stand up
            against it. A ghost from the grave could not have cowed
            her more speedily.</p>
        <p>She turned her back on Emily in silence but Emily
            knew that she had won her second victory. The grey
            kitten stayed at New Moon and waxed fat and lovable,<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_153">153</a></span>
            and Aunt Elizabeth never took the slightest notice of its
            existence, save to sweep it out of the house when Emily
            was not about. But it was weeks before Emily was really
            forgiven and she felt uncomfortable enough over it.
            Aunt Elizabeth could be a not ungenerous conqueror but
            she was very disagreeable in defeat. It was really just
            as well that Emily could not summon the Murray look at
            will.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xv" />CHAPTER XV<br />
                <span>Various Tragedies</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">E</span>MILY, obedient to Aunt Elizabeth’s command, had
            eliminated the word “bull” from her vocabulary.
            But to ignore the existence of bulls was not to do away
            with them—and specifically with Mr. James Lee’s English
            bull, who inhabited the big windy pasture west of
            Blair Water and who bore a dreadful reputation. He
            was certainly an awesome looking creature and Emily
            sometimes had fearful dreams of being chased by him
            and being unable to move. And one sharp November
            day these dreams came true.</p>
        <p>There was a certain well at the far end of the pasture
            concerning which Emily felt a curiosity, because Cousin
            Jimmy had told her a dreadful tale about it. The well
            had been dug sixty years ago by two brothers who lived
            in a little house which was built down near the shore.
            It was a very deep well, which was considered a curious
            thing in that low-lying land near pond and sea; the
            brothers had gone ninety feet before they found a spring.
            Then the sides of the well had been stoned up—but the
            work never went further. Thomas and Silas Lee had
            quarrelled over some trivial difference of opinion as to<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_154">154</a></span>
            what kind of a hood should be put over it; and in the
            heat of his anger Silas had struck Thomas on the head
            with his hammer and killed him.</p>
        <p>The well-house was never built. Silas Lee was sent
            to prison for manslaughter and died there. The farm
            passed to another brother—Mr. James Lee’s father—who
            moved the house to the other end of it and planked the
            well over. Cousin <a id="Jimmy3" /><ins title="Original has 'Jimmie'">Jimmy</ins> added that Tom Lee’s ghost
            was supposed to haunt the scene of his tragic death but he
            couldn’t vouch for that, though he had written a poem on
            it. A very eerie poem it was, too, and made Emily’s
            blood run cold with a fearful joy when he recited it to
            her one misty night by the big potato pot. Ever since
            she had wanted to see the old well.</p>
        <p>Her chance came one Saturday when she was prowling
            alone in the old graveyard. Beyond it lay the Lee pasture
            and there was apparently not a sign of a bull in or about
            it. Emily decided to pay a visit to the old well and went
            skimming down the field against the sweep of the north
            wind racing across the gulf. The Wind Woman was a
            giantess that day and a mighty swirl she was stirring up
            along the shore; but as Emily drew near the big sand-dunes
            they made a little harbour of calmness around the
            old well.</p>
        <p>Emily coolly lifted up one of the planks, knelt on the
            others and peered down. Fortunately the planks were
            strong and comparatively new—otherwise the small
            maiden of New Moon might have explored the well more
            thoroughly than she desired to do. As it was, she could
            see little of it; huge ferns grew thickly out of the crevices
            among the stones of its sides and reached across it, shutting
            out the view of its gloomy depths. Rather disappointed,
            Emily replaced the plank and started homeward.
            She had not gone ten steps before she stopped. Mr.
            James Lee’s bull was coming straight towards her and
            was less than twenty yards away.</p>
        <p>The shore fence was not far behind Emily, and she<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_155">155</a></span>
            might possibly have reached it in time had she run. But
            she was incapable of running; as she wrote that night
            in her letter to her father she was “parralised” with terror
            and could no more move than she could in her dreams of
            this very occurrence. It is quite conceivable that a dreadful
            thing might have happened then and there had not a
            certain boy been sitting on the shore fence. He had
            been sitting there unnoticed all the time Emily had been
            peering into the well; now he sprang down.</p>
        <p>Emily saw, or sensed, a sturdy body dashing past her.
            The owner thereof ran to within ten feet of the bull,
            hurled a stone squarely into the monster’s hairy face, then
            sped off at right angles towards the side fence. The
            bull, thus insulted, turned with a menacing rumble and
            lumbered off after this intruder.</p>
        <p>“Run now!” screamed the boy over his shoulder to
            Emily.</p>
        <p>Emily did not run. Terrified as she was, there was
            something in her that would not let her run until she
            saw whether her gallant rescuer made good his escape.
            He reached his fence in the nick of time. Then and not
            till then Emily ran too, and scrambled over the shore
            fence just as the bull started back across the pasture,
            evidently determined to catch somebody. Trembling, she
            made her way through the spiky grass of the sand-hills
            and met the boy at the corner. They stood and looked
            at each other for a moment.</p>
        <p>The boy was a stranger to Emily. He had a cheery,
            impudent, clean-cut face, with keen, grey eyes and plenty
            of tawny curls. He wore as few clothes as decency
            permitted and had only the pretence of a hat. Emily
            liked him; there was nothing of Teddy’s subtle charm in
            him but he had a certain forceful attraction of his own
            and he had just saved her from a terrible death.</p>
        <p>“Thank you,” said Emily shyly, looking up at him
            with great grey eyes that looked blue under her long
            lashes. It was a very effective look which lost nothing<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_156">156</a></span>
            of effectiveness from being wholly unconscious. Nobody
            had as yet told Emily how very winsome that shy, sudden,
            up-glance of hers was.</p>
        <p>“Isn’t he a rip-snorter?” said the boy easily. He
            thrust his hands into his ragged pockets and stared at
            Emily so fixedly that she dropped her eyes in confusion—thereby
            doing further damage with those demure lids
            and silken fringes.</p>
        <p>“He’s dreadful,” she said with a shudder. “And I
            was so scared.”</p>
        <p>“Were you now? And me thinking you were full of
            grit to be standing there like that looking at him cool as
            a cucumber. What’s it like to be afraid?”</p>
        <p>“Weren’t <em>you</em> ever afraid?” asked Emily.</p>
        <p>“No—don’t know what it’s like,” said the boy carelessly,
            and a bit boastfully. “What’s your name?”</p>
        <p>“Emily Byrd Starr.”</p>
        <p>“Live round here?”</p>
        <p>“I live at New Moon.”</p>
        <p>“Where Simple Jimmy Murray lives?”</p>
        <p>“He <em>isn’t</em> simple,” cried Emily indignantly.</p>
        <p>“Oh, all right. I don’t know him. But I’m going to.
            I’m going to hire with him for chore boy for the winter.”</p>
        <p>“I didn’t know,” said Emily, surprised. “Are you
            really?”</p>
        <p>“Yep. I didn’t know it myself till just this minute.
            He was asking Aunt Tom about me last week but I
            didn’t mean to hire out then. Now I guess I will.
            Want to know my name?”</p>
        <p>“Of course.”</p>
        <p>“Perry Miller. I live with my old beast of an Aunt
            Tom down at Stovepipe Town. Dad was a sea-captain
            and I uster sail with him when he was alive—sailed
            everywhere. Go to school?”</p>
        <p>“Yes.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t—never did. Aunt Tom lives so far away.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_157">157</a></span>
            Anyhow, I didn’t think I’d like it. Guess I’ll go now,
            though.”</p>
        <p>“Can’t you read?” asked Emily wonderingly.</p>
        <p>“Yes—some—and figger. Dad learned me some
            when he was alive. I hain’t bothered with it since—I’d
            ruther be down round the harbour. Great fun there.
            But if I make up my mind to go to school I’ll learn like
            thunder. I s’pose you’re awful clever.”</p>
        <p>“No—not very. Father said I was a genius, but Aunt
            Elizabeth says I’m just queer.”</p>
        <p>“What’s a genius?”</p>
        <p>“I’m not sure. Sometimes it’s a person who writes
            poetry. <em>I</em> write poetry.”</p>
        <p>Perry stared at her.</p>
        <p>“Golly. I’ll write poetry too, then.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t believe <em>you</em> could write poetry,” said Emily—a
            little disdainfully, it must be admitted. “Teddy
            can’t—and he’s <em>very</em> clever.”</p>
        <p>“Who’s Teddy?”</p>
        <p>“A friend of mine.” There was just a trace of stiffness
            in Emily’s voice.</p>
        <p>“Then,” said Perry, folding his arms across his breast
            and scowling, “I’m going to punch this friend of yours’
            head for him.”</p>
        <p>“You’re not,” cried Emily. She was very indignant
            and quite forgot for the moment that Perry had rescued
            her from the bull. She tossed her own head and started
            homeward. Perry turned too.</p>
        <p>“May as well go up and see Jimmy Murray about hiring
            ’fore I go home,” he said. “Don’t be mad, now.
            If you don’t want anybody’s head punched I won’t punch
            it. Only you’ve gotter like me, too.”</p>
        <p>“Why, of course I’ll like you,” said Emily, as if there
            could be no question about it. She smiled her slow,
            blossoming smile at Perry and thereby reduced him to
            hopeless bondage.</p>
        <p>Two days later Perry Miller was installed as chore<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_158">158</a></span>
            boy at New Moon and in a fortnight’s time Emily felt
            as if he must have been there always.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth didn’t want Cousin Jimmy to hire
            him,” she wrote to her father, “because he was one of
            the boys who did a dreadful thing one night last fall.
            They changed all the horses that were tied to the fence
            one Sunday night when preaching was going on and
            when folks came out the confushun was awful. Aunt
            Elizabeth said it wouldn’t be safe to have him round the
            place. But Cousin Jimmy said it was awful hard to get
            a chore boy and that we ode Perry something for saving
            my life from the bull. So Aunt Elizabeth gave in and
            lets him sit at the table with us but he has to stay in the
            kitchen in the evenings. The rest of us are in the sitting-room,
            but I am allowed to go out and help Perry
            with his lessons. He can only have one candle and the
            light is very dim. It keeps us snuffing it all the time.
            It is great fun to snuff candles. Perry is head of his
            class in school already. He is only in the third book all-though
            he is nearly twelve. Miss Brownell said something
            sarkastik to him the first day in school and he just
            threw back his head and laughed loud and long. Miss
            Brownell gave him a whipping for it but she has never
            been sarkastik to him again. She does not like to be
            laughed at I can see. Perry isn’t afraid of anything. I
            thought he might not go to school any more when she
            whipped him but he says a little thing like that isn’t
            going to keep him from getting an educashun since he
            has made up his mind to it. He is very determined.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth is determined too. But she says Perry
            is stubborn. I am teaching Perry grammar. He says
            he wants to learn to speak properly. I told him he
            should not call his Aunt Tom an old beast but he said
            he had to because she wasn’t a young beast. He says
            the place he lives in is called Stovepipe Town because
            the houses have no chimneys, only pipes sticking out of
            the roof, but he would live in a manshun some day.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_159">159</a></span>
            Aunt Elizabeth says I ought not to be so friendly with
            a hired boy. But he is a nice boy though his manners
            are crood. Aunt Laura says they are crood. I don’t
            know what it means but I guess it means he always
            says what he thinks right out and eats beans with his
            knife. I like Perry but in a different way from Teddy.
            Isn’t it funny, dear Father, how many kinds of ways of
            liking there are? I don’t think Ilse likes him. She makes
            fun of his ignerance and turns up her nose at him because
            his close are patched though her own close are queer
            enough. Teddy doesnt like him much and he drew such
            a funny picture of Perry hanging by his heels from a
            gallos. The face looked like Perrys and still it didn’t.
            Cousin Jimmy said it was a carrycachure and laughed at
            it but I dared not show it to Perry for fear he would
            punch Teddys head. I showed it to Ilse and she got
            mad and tore it in two. I cant imagine why.</p>
        <p>“Perry says he can recite as well as Ilse and could draw
            pictures too if he put his mind to it. I can see he doesnt
            like to think anybody can do anything he cant. But he
            cant see the wallpaper in the air like I can though he
            tries until I fear he will strane his eyes. He can make
            better speeches than any of us. He says he used to mean
            to be a sailer like his father but now he thinks he will
            be a lawyer when he grows up and go to parlament.
            Teddy is going to be an artist if his mother will let him,
            and Ilse is going to be a concert reciter—there is another
            name but I don’t know how it is spelled—and I am going
            to be a poetess. I think we are a tallented crowd. Perhaps
            that is a vane thing to say, dear Father.</p>
        <p>“A very terrible thing happened the day before yesterday.
            On Saturday morning we were at family prayers,
            all kneeling quite solemn around the kitchen. I just
            looked at Perry once and he made such a funny face at
            me that I laughed right out loud before I could help it.
            (<em>That</em> was not the terrible thing.) Aunt Elizabeth was
            <em>very</em> angry. I would not tell that it was Perry made me<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_160">160</a></span>
            laugh because I was afraid he might be sent away if I
            did. So Aunt Elizabeth said I was to be punished and
            I was not let go to Jennie Strangs party in the afternoon.
            (It was a dreadful disappointment but <em>it</em> was not
            the terrible thing either.) Perry was away with Cousin
            Jimmy all day and when he came home at night he said
            to me, very feerce, Who has been making you cry. I
            said I had been crying—a little but not much—because
            I was not let go to the party because I had laughed at
            prayers. And Perry marched right up to Aunt Elizabeth
            and told her it was all his fault that I laughed.
            Aunt Elizabeth said I should not have laughed anyhow,
            but Aunt Laura was <em>greevously</em> upset and said my punishment
            had been far too severe; and she said that she
            would let me ware her pearl ring to school Monday to
            make up for it. I was enraptured for it is a lovely
            ring and no other girl has one. As soon as roll call
            was over Monday morning I put up my hand to ask
            Miss Brownell a question but really to show off my ring.
            That was wikked pride and I was punished. At recess
            Cora Lee, one of the big girls in the sixth class came
            and asked me to let her ware the ring for a while. I
            didnt want to but she said if I didnt she would get all
            the girls in my class to send me to coventry (which is a
            dreadful thing, dear Father, and makes you feel like an
            outcast). So I let her and she kept it on till the afternoon
            recess and then she came and told me she had lost it
            in the brook. (This was the terrible thing). Oh,
            Father dear, I was nearly wild. I dared not go home
            and face Aunt Laura. I had promised her I would be
            so careful of the ring. I thought I might earn money
            to get her another ring but when I figgered it out on my
            slate I knew I would have to wash dishes for twenty
            years to do it. I wepped in my despare. Perry saw
            me and after school he marched up to Cora Lee and said
            You fork over that ring or I’ll tell Miss Brownell about it.<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_161">161</a></span>
            And Cora Lee forked it over, very meek and said I was
            going to give it to her anyhow. I was just playing a
            joke and Perry said, Dont you play any more jokes on
            Emily or I’ll joke you. It is very comforting to have
            such a champeen! I tremble to think what it would have
            been like if I had had to go home and tell Aunt Laura I
            had lost her ring. But it was crewel of Cora Lee to
            tell me she had lost it when she had not and harrow up
            my mind so. I could not be so crewel to an orfan girl.
        </p>
        <p>“When I got home I looked in the glass to see if my
            hair had turned white. I am told that sometimes hapens.
            But it hadnt.</p>
        <p>“Perry knows more geograffy than any of us because
            he has been nearly everywhere in the world with his
            father. He tells me such fassinating stories after his
            lessons are done. He talks till the candle is burned to
            the last inch and then he uses that to go to bed with up
            the black hole into the kitchen loft because Aunt Elizabeth
            will not let him have more than one candle a night.</p>
        <p>“Ilse and I had a fight yesterday about which we’d
            rather be Joan of Arc or Frances Willard. We didn’t
            begin it as a fight but just as an argewment but it ended
            that way. <em>I</em> would rather be Frances Willard because
            she is alive.</p>
        <p>“We had the first snow yesterday. I made a poem on
            it. This is it.</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">Along the snow the sunbeams glide</div>
                    <div class="line">Earth is a peerless, gleaming bride,</div>
                    <div class="line">Dripping with dimonds, clad in traling white,</div>
                    <div class="line">No bride was ever half so fair and bright.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>“I read it to Perry and he said he could make poetry
            just as good and he said right off,</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">Mike has made a long row</div>
                    <div class="line">Of tracks across the snow.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_162">162</a></span>
            Now isnt that as good as yours. I didnt think it was
            because you could say it just as well in prose. But when
            you talk of peerless gleaming brides in prose it sounds
            funny. Mike <em>did</em> make a row of little tracks right across
            the barn field and they looked so pretty, but not so pretty
            as the mice tracks in some flour Cousin Jimmy spilled
            on the granary floor. They are the dearest little things.
            They <em>look</em> like poetry.</p>
        <p>“I am sorry winter has come because Ilse and I cant
            play in our house in Lofty Johns bush any more till
            spring or outside at the Tansy Patch. Sometimes we
            play indoors at the Tansy Patch but Mrs. Kent makes us
            feel queer. She sits and watches us all the time. So
            we dont go only when Teddy coaxes very hard. And
            the pigs have been killed, poor things, so Cousin Jimmy
            doesnt boil for them any more. But there is one consolashun
            I do not have to ware a sunbonnet to school
            now. Aunt Laura made me such a pretty red hood with
            ribbons on it at which Aunt Elizabeth looked skornfully
            saying it was extravagant. I like school here better every
            day but I cant like Miss Brownell. She isnt fair. She
            told us she would give the one who wrote the best composishun
            a pink ribbon to wear from Friday night to
            Monday. I wrote The Brooks Story about the brook in
            Lofty John’s bush—all its advenshures and thoughts—and
            Miss Brownell said I must have copyed it and Rhoda
            Stuart got the ribbon. Aunt Elizabeth said You waste
            enough time writing trash I think you might have won
            that ribbon. She was mortifyed (I think) because I had
            disgraced New Moon by not getting it but I did not tell
            her what had happened. Teddy says a <em>good sport</em> never
            whines over losing. I want to be a good sport. Rhoda
            is so hateful to me now. She says she is surprised that
            a New Moon girl should have a hired boy for a bow.
            That is very silly because Perry is not my bow. Perry
            told her she had more gab than sense. That was not
            polite but it is true. One day in class Rhoda said the<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_163">163</a></span>
            moon was situated east of Canada. Perry laughed right
            out and Miss Brownell made him stay in at recess but
            she never said anything to Rhoda for saying such a ridiklus
            thing. But the meanest thing Rhoda said was that
            she had forgiven me for the way I had used her. That
            made my blood boil when I hadnt done anything to be
            forgiven for. The idea.</p>
        <p>“We have begun to eat the big beef ham that hung in
            the southwest corner of the kitchen.</p>
        <p>“The other Wednesday night Perry and I helped Cousin
            Jimmy pick a road through the turnips in the first cellar.
            We have to go through it to the second cellar because
            the outside hatch is banked up now. It was great fun.
            We had a candle stuck up in a hole in the wall and it
            made such lovely shadows and we could eat all the apples
            we wanted from the big barrel in the corner and the
            spirit moved Cousin Jimmy to recite some of his poetry
            as he threw the turnips.</p>
        <p>“I am reading The Alhambra. It belongs to our book
            case. Aunt Elizabeth does not like to say it isnt fit
            for me to read because it was one of her fathers books,
            but I dont believe she aproves because she knits very
            furiusly and looks black at me over her glasses. Teddy
            lent me Hans Andersons stories. I love them—only I always
            think of a different end for the Ice Maiden and
            save Rudy.</p>
        <p>“They say Mrs. John Killegrew has swallowed her
            wedding-ring. I wonder what she did that for.</p>
        <p>“Cousin Jimmy says there is to be an eklips of the
            sun in December. I hope it wont interfear with Chrismas.</p>
        <p>“My hands are chapped. Aunt Laura rubs mutton
            tallow on them every night when I go to bed. It is hard
            to write poetry with chapped hands. I wonder if Mrs.
            Hemans ever had chapped hands. It does not mention
            anything like that in her biograffy.</p>
        <p>“Jimmy Ball has to be a minister when he grows up.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_164">164</a></span>
            His mother told Aunt Laura that she consekrated him to
            it in his cradle. I wonder how she did it.</p>
        <p>“We have brekfast by candlelight now and I like it.</p>
        <p>“Ilse was up here Sunday afternoon and we went up
            in the garret and talked about God, because that is propper
            on Sundays. We have to be very careful what we
            do on Sundays. It is a traddishun of New Moon to keep
            Sundays very holy. Grandfather Murray was very strikt.
            Cousin Jimmy told me a story about him. They always
            cut the wood for Sunday on Saturday night, but one time
            they forgot and there was no wood on Sunday to cook
            the dinner, so Grandfather Murray said you must not
            cut wood on Sundays, boys, but just break a little with
            the back of the axe. Ilse is very curious about God although
            she doesnt believe in Him most of the time and
            doesnt like to talk about Him but still wants to find out
            about Him. She says she thinks she might like Him if
            she knew Him. She spells his name with a Capital G
            now because it is best to be on the safe side. <em>I</em> think
            God is just like my flash, only <em>it</em> lasts only a second and
            He lasts always. We talked so long we got hungry and
            I went down to the sitting-room cubbord and got two
            donuts. I forgot Aunt Elizabeth had told me I could
            not have donuts between meals. It was not stealing it
            was just forgetting. But Ilse got mad at the last and
            said I was a she jakobite (whatever that is) and a thief
            and that no Christian would steal donuts from her poor
            old aunt. So I went and confessed to Aunt Elizabeth
            and she said I was not to have a donut at supper. It
            was hard to see the others eating them. I thought Perry
            et his very quick but after supper he bekoned me out
            doors and gave me half his donut which he had kept for
            me. He had rapped it in his hangkerchief which was not
            very clean but I et it because I did not want to hurt his
            feelings.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Laura says Ilse has a nice smile. I wonder
            if I have a nice smile. I looked at the glass in Ilse’s<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_165">165</a></span>
            room and smiled but it did not seem to me very nice.</p>
        <p>“Now the nights have got cold Aunt Elizabeth always
            puts a gin jar full of hot water in the bed. I like to put
            my toes against it. That is all we use the gin jar for
            nowadays. But Grandfather Murray used to keep real
            gin in it.</p>
        <p>“Now that the snow has come Cousin Jimmy cant
            work in his garden any more and he is very lonesome.
            I think the garden is just as pretty in winter as in summer.
            There are such pretty dimples and baby hills where
            the snow has covered up the flower beds. And in the
            evenings it is all pink and rosy at sunset and by moonlight
            it is like dreamland. I like to look out of the sitting-room
            window at it and watch the rabbits candles
            floting in the air above it and wonder what all the little
            roots and seeds are thinking of down under the snow.
            And it gives me a lovely creepy feeling to look at it
            through the red glass in the front door.</p>
        <p>“There is a beautiful fringe of isikles along the cook-house
            roof. But there will be much more beautiful
            things in heaven. I was reading about Anzonetta to-day
            and it made me feel relijus. Good night, my dearest of
            fathers.</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>Emily.</em></p>
        <p>“P. S. That doesnt mean that I have any other
            Father. It is just a way of saying <em>very very</em> dear.</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>E. B. S.</em>”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xvi" />CHAPTER XVI<br />
                <span>Check for Miss Brownell</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">E</span>MILY and Ilse were sitting out on the side bench of
            Blair Water school writing poetry on their slates—at
            least, Emily was writing poetry and Ilse was reading
            it as she wrote and occasionally suggesting a rhyme<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_166">166</a></span>
            when Emily was momentarily stuck for one. It may
            as well be admitted here and now that they had no business
            whatever to be doing this. They should have been
            “doing sums,” as Miss Brownell supposed they were.
            But Emily never did sums when she took it into her
            black head to write poetry, and Ilse hated arithmetic on
            general principles. Miss Brownell was hearing the geography
            class at the other side of the room, the pleasant
            sunshine was showering in over them through the big
            window, and everything seemed propitious for a flight
            with the muses. Emily began to write a poem about
            the view from the school window.</p>
        <p>It was quite a long time since she had been allowed
            to sit out on the side bench. This was a boon reserved
            for those pupils who had found favour in Miss Brownell’s
            cold eyes—and Emily had never been one of those. But
            this afternoon Ilse had asked for both herself and Emily,
            and Miss Brownell had let both go, not being able to
            think of any valid reason for permitting Ilse and refusing
            Emily—as she would have liked to do, for she had one
            of those petty natures which never forget or forgive
            any offence. Emily, on her first day of school, had, so
            Miss Brownell believed, been guilty of impertinence and
            defiance—and successful defiance at that. This rankled
            in Miss Brownell’s mind still and Emily felt its venom
            in a score of subtle ways. She never received any commendation—she
            was a target for Miss Brownell’s sarcasm
            continually—and the small favours that other girls
            received never came her way. So this opportunity to
            sit on the side bench was a pleasing novelty.</p>
        <p>There were points about sitting on the side bench.
            You could see all over the school without turning your
            head—and Miss Brownell could not sneak up behind you
            and look over your shoulder to see what you were up
            to; but in Emily’s eyes the finest thing about it was that
            you could look right down into the “school bush,” and
            watch the old spruces where the Wind Woman played,<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_167">167</a></span>
            the long grey-green trails of moss hanging from the
            branches, like banners of Elfland, the little red squirrels
            running along the fence, and the wonderful white aisles
            of snow where splashes of sunlight fell like pools of
            golden wine; and there was one little opening in the trees
            through which you could see right over the Blair Water
            valley to the sand-hills and the gulf beyond. To-day the
            sand-hills were softly rounded and gleaming white under
            the snow, but beyond them the gulf was darkly, deeply
            blue with dazzling white masses of ice like baby icebergs,
            floating about in it. Just to look at it thrilled Emily with
            a delight that was unutterable but which she yet must try
            to utter. She began her poem. Fractions were utterly
            forgotten—what had numerators and denominators to
            do with those curving bosoms of white snow—that
            heavenly blue—those crossed dark fir tips against the
            pearly skies—those ethereal woodland aisles of pearl and
            gold? Emily was lost to her world—so lost that she
            did not know the geography class had scattered to their
            respective seats and that Miss Brownell, catching sight
            of Emily’s entranced gaze sky-wards as she searched for
            a rhyme, was stepping softly towards her. Ilse was
            drawing a picture on her slate and did not see her or she
            would have warned Emily. The latter suddenly felt her
            slate drawn out of her hand and heard Miss Brownell
            saying:</p>
        <p>“I suppose you have finished those sums, Emily?”</p>
        <p>Emily had not finished even one sum—she had only
            covered her slate with verses—verses that Miss Brownell
            must not see—<em>must not</em> see! Emily sprang to her feet
            and clutched wildly after her slate. But Miss Brownell,
            with a smile of malicious enjoyment on her thin lips,
            held it beyond her reach.</p>
        <p>“What is this? It does not look—exactly—like fractions.
            ‘Lines on the View—v-e-w—from the Window
            of Blair Water School.’ Really, children, we seem to
            have a budding poet among us.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_168">168</a></span></p>
        <p>The words were harmless enough, but—oh, the hateful
            sneer that ran through the tone—the contempt, the mockery
            that was in it! It seared Emily’s soul like a whiplash.
            Nothing was more terrible to her than the thought
            of having her beloved “poems” read by stranger eyes—cold,
            unsympathetic, derisive, stranger eyes.</p>
        <p>“Please—please, Miss Brownell,” she stammered miserably,
            “don’t read it—I’ll rub it off—I’ll do my sums
            right away. Only please don’t read it. It—it isn’t anything.”</p>
        <p>Miss Brownell laughed cruelly.</p>
        <p>“You are too modest, Emily. It is a whole slateful
            of—<em>poetry</em>—think of that, children—<em>poetry</em>. We have a
            pupil in this school who can write—<em>poetry</em>. And she
            does not want us to read this—<em>poetry</em>. I am afraid
            Emily is selfish. I am sure we should all enjoy this—<em>poetry</em>.”</p>
        <p>Emily cringed every time Miss Brownell said “<em>poetry</em>,”
            with that jeering emphasis and that hateful pause before
            it. Many of the children giggled, partly because
            they enjoyed seeing a “Murray of New Moon” grilled,
            partly because they realized that Miss Brownell expected
            them to giggle. Rhoda Stuart giggled louder than any
            one else; but Jennie Strang, who had tormented Emily
            on her first day at school, refused to giggle and scowled
            blackly at Miss Brownell instead.</p>
        <p>Miss Brownell held up the slate and read Emily’s poem
            aloud, in a sing-song nasal voice, with absurd intonations
            and gestures that made it seem a very ridiculous thing.
            The lines Emily had thought the finest seemed the most
            ridiculous. The other pupils laughed more than ever
            and Emily felt that the bitterness of the moment could
            never go out of her heart. The little fancies that had
            been so beautiful when they came to her as she wrote
            were shattered and bruised now, like torn and mangled
            butterflies—“vistas in some fairy dream,” chanted Miss
            Brownell, shutting her eyes and wagging her head from<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_169">169</a></span>
            side to side. The giggles became shouts of laughter.</p>
        <p>“Oh,” thought Emily, clenching her hands, “I wish—I
            wish the bears that ate the naughty children in the
            Bible would come and eat <em>you</em>.”</p>
        <p>There were no nice, retributive bears in the school
            bush, however, and Miss Brownell read the whole
            “poem” through. She was enjoying herself hugely.
            To ridicule a pupil always gave her pleasure and when
            that pupil was Emily of New Moon, in whose heart and
            soul she had always sensed something fundamentally different
            from her own, the pleasure was exquisite.</p>
        <p>When she reached the end she handed the slate back
            to the crimson-cheeked Emily.</p>
        <p>“Take your—<em>poetry</em>, Emily,” she said.</p>
        <p>Emily snatched the slate. No slate “rag” was handy
            but Emily gave the palm of her hand a fierce lick and one
            side of the slate was wiped off. Another lick—and the
            rest of the poem went. It had been disgraced—degraded—it
            must be blotted out of existence. To the end of
            her life Emily never forgot the pain and humiliation of
            that experience.</p>
        <p>Miss Brownell laughed again.</p>
        <p>“What a pity to obliterate such—<em>poetry</em>, Emily,” she
            said. “Suppose you do those sums now. They are not—<em>poetry</em>,
            but I am in this school to teach arithmetic and
            I am not here to teach the art of writing—<em>poetry</em>. Go
            to your own seat. Yes, Rhoda?”</p>
        <p>For Rhoda Stuart was holding up her hand and snapping
            her fingers.</p>
        <p>“Please, Miss Brownell,” she said, with distinct triumph
            in her tones, “Emily Starr has a whole bunch of poetry
            in her desk. She was reading it to Ilse Burnley this
            morning while you thought they were learning history.”</p>
        <p>Perry Miller turned around and a delightful missile,
            compounded of chewed paper and known as a “spit pill,”
            flew across the room and struck Rhoda squarely in the<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_170">170</a></span>
            face. But Miss Brownell was already at Emily’s desk,
            having reached it one jump before Emily herself.</p>
        <p>“Don’t touch them—you have no <em>right</em>!” gasped Emily
            frantically.</p>
        <p>But Miss Brownell had the “bunch of poetry” in her
            hands. She turned and walked up to the platform.
            Emily followed. Those poems were very dear to her.
            She had composed them during the various stormy
            recesses when it had been impossible to play out of doors
            and written them down on disreputable scraps of paper
            borrowed from her mates. She had meant to take them
            home that very evening and copy them on letter-bills.
            And now this horrible woman was going to read them to
            the whole jeering, giggling school.</p>
        <p>But Miss Brownell realized that the time was too short
            for that. She had to content herself with reading over
            the titles, with some appropriate comments.</p>
        <p>Meanwhile Perry Miller was relieving his feelings by
            bombarding Rhoda Stuart with spit pills, so craftily timed
            that Rhoda had no idea from what quarter of the room
            they were coming and so could not “tell” on any one.
            They greatly interfered with her enjoyment of Emily’s
            scrape, however. As for Teddy Kent, who did not wage
            war with spit pills but preferred subtler methods of revenge,
            he was busy drawing something on a sheet of
            paper. Rhoda found the sheet on her desk the next
            morning; on it was depicted a small, scrawny monkey,
            hanging by its tail from a branch; and the face of the
            monkey was as the face of Rhoda Stuart. Whereat
            Rhoda Stuart waxed wroth, but for the sake of her own
            vanity tore the sketch to tatters and kept silence regarding
            it. She did not know that Teddy had made a similar
            sketch, with Miss Brownell figuring as a vampirish-looking
            bat, and thrust it into Emily’s hand as they left
            school.</p>
        <p>“‘The Lost Dimond—a Romantic Tale,’” read Miss
            Brownell. “‘Lines on a Birch Tree’—looks to me more<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_171">171</a></span>
            like lines on a very dirty piece of paper, Emily—‘Lines
            Written on a Sundial in our Garden’—ditto—‘Lines to
            my Favourite Cat’—another romantic <em>tail</em>, I presume—‘Ode
            to Ilse’—‘Thy neck is of a wondrous pearly sheen’—hardly
            that, I should say. Ilse’s neck is very sunburned—‘A
            Deskripshun of Our Parlour,’ ‘The Violets
            Spell’—I hope the violet <em>spells</em> better than you do, Emily—‘The
            Disappointed House’—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">“‘Lilies lifted up white cups</div>
                    <div class="line">For the bees to <em>dr—r—i—i—nk</em>.’”</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>“I didn’t write it that way!” cried tortured Emily.</p>
        <p>“‘Lines to a Piece of Brokade in Aunt Laura’s Burow
            Drawer,’ ‘Farewell on Leaving Home,’ ‘Lines to a Spruce
            Tree’—‘It keeps off heat and sun and glare, Tis a
            goodly tree I ween’—are you quite sure that you know
            what ‘ween’ means, Emily?—‘Poem on Mr. Tom Bennet’s
            Field’—‘Poem on the Vew from Aunt Elizabeth’s
            Window’—you are strong on ‘v-e-w-s,’ Emily—‘Epitaff
            on a Drowned Kitten,’ ‘Meditashuns at the tomb of my
            great great grandmother’—poor lady—‘To my Northern
            Birds’—‘Lines composed on the bank of Blair
            Water gazing at the stars’—h’m—h’m—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">“‘Crusted with uncounted gems,</div>
                    <div class="line">Those stars so distant, cold and true,’</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Don’t try to pass those lines off as your own, Emily.
            You couldn’t have written them.”</p>
        <p>“I did—I did!” Emily was white with sense of outrage.
            “And I’ve written lots far better.”</p>
        <p>Miss Brownell suddenly crumpled the ragged little
            papers up in her hand.</p>
        <p>“We have wasted enough time over this trash,” she
            said. “Go to your seat, Emily.”</p>
        <p>She moved towards the stove. For a moment Emily
            did not realize her purpose. Then, as Miss Brownell<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_172">172</a></span>
            opened the stove door, Emily understood and bounded
            forward. She caught at the papers and tore them from
            Miss Brownell’s hand before the latter could tighten
            her grasp.</p>
        <p>“You <em>shall not</em> burn them—you shall not have them,”
            gasped Emily. She crammed the poems into the pocket
            of her “baby apron” and faced Miss Brownell in a kind
            of calm rage. The Murray look was on her face—and
            although Miss Brownell was not so violently affected
            by it as Aunt Elizabeth had been, it nevertheless gave
            her an unpleasant sensation, as of having roused forces
            with which she dared not tamper further. This tormented
            child looked quite capable of flying at her, tooth
            and claw.</p>
        <p>“Give me those papers, Emily,”—but she said it rather
            uncertainly.</p>
        <p>“I will not,” said Emily stormily. “They are mine.
            You have no right to them. I wrote them at recesses—I
            didn’t break any rules. You”—Emily looked defiantly
            into Miss Brownell’s cold eyes—“You are an unjust,
            tyrannical <em>person</em>.”</p>
        <p>Miss Brownell turned to her desk.</p>
        <p>“I am coming up to New Moon to-night to tell your
            Aunt Elizabeth of this,” she said.</p>
        <p>Emily was at first too much excited over saving her
            precious poetry to pay much heed to this threat. But
            as her excitement ebbed cold dread flowed in. She
            knew she had an unpleasant time ahead of her. But at
            all events they should not get her poems—not one of
            them, no matter what they did to <em>her</em>. As soon as she
            got home from school she flew to the garret and secreted
            them on the shelf of the old sofa.</p>
        <p>She wanted terribly to cry but she would not. Miss
            Brownell was coming and Miss Brownell should <em>not</em> see
            her with red eyes. But her heart burned within her.
            Some sacred temple of her being had been desecrated
            and shamed. And more was yet to come, she felt<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_173">173</a></span>
            wretchedly sure. Aunt Elizabeth was certain to side
            with Miss Brownell. Emily shrank from the impending
            ordeal with all the dread of a sensitive, fine strung nature
            facing humiliation. She would not have been afraid of
            justice; but she knew at the bar of Aunt Elizabeth and
            Miss Brownell she would not have justice.</p>
        <p>“And I can’t write Father about it,” she thought, her
            little breast heaving. The shame of it all was too deep
            and intimate to be written out, and so she could find
            no relief for her pain.</p>
        <p>They did not have supper at New Moon in winter
            time until Cousin Jimmy had finished his chores and
            was ready to stay in for the night. So Emily was left
            undisturbed in the garret.</p>
        <p>From the dormer window she looked down on a dreamland
            scene that would ordinarily have delighted her.
            There was a red sunset behind the white, distant hills,
            shining through the dark trees like a great fire; there
            was a delicate blue tracery of bare branch shadows all
            over the crusted garden; there was a pale, ethereal alpenglow
            all over the southeastern sky; and presently there
            was a little, lovely new moon in the silvery arch over
            Lofty John’s bush. But Emily found no pleasure in
            any of them.</p>
        <p>Presently she saw Miss Brownell coming up the lane,
            under the white arms of the birches, with her mannish
            stride.</p>
        <p>“If my father was alive,” said Emily, looking down
            at her, “you would go away from this place with a flea
            in your ear.”</p>
        <p>The minutes passed, each seeming very long to Emily.
            At last Aunt Laura came up.</p>
        <p>“Your Aunt Elizabeth wants you to come down to
            the kitchen, Emily.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Laura’s voice was kind and sad. Emily fought
            down a sob. She hated to have Aunt Laura think she
            had been naughty, but she could not trust herself to explain.<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_174">174</a></span>
            Aunt Laura would sympathize and sympathy
            would break her down. She went silently down the
            two long flights of stairs before Aunt Laura and out to
            the kitchen.</p>
        <p>The supper table was set and the candles were lighted.
            The big black-raftered kitchen looked spookish and weird,
            as it always did by candlelight. Aunt Elizabeth sat
            rigidly by the table and her face was very hard. Miss
            Brownell sat in the rocking-chair, her pale eyes glittering
            with triumphant malice. There seemed something
            baleful and poisonous in her very glance. Also, her nose
            was very red—which did not add to her charm.</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy, in his grey jumper, was perched on the
            edge of the wood-box, whistling at the ceiling, and looking
            more gnome-like than ever. Perry was nowhere to be
            seen. Emily was sorry for this. The presence of
            Perry, who was on her side, would have been a great
            moral support.</p>
        <p>“I am sorry to say, Emily, that I have been hearing
            some very bad things about your behaviour in school to-day,”
            said Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“No, I don’t think you are sorry,” said Emily, gravely.</p>
        <p>Now that the crisis had come she found herself able
            to confront it coolly—nay, more, to take a curious interest
            in it under all her secret fear and shame, as if
            some part of her had detached itself from the rest and
            was interestedly absorbing impressions and analyzing
            motives and describing settings. She felt that when she
            wrote about this scene later on she must not forget to
            describe the odd shadows the candle under Aunt Elizabeth’s
            nose cast upward on her face, producing a rather
            skeletonic effect. As for Miss Brownell, could <em>she</em> ever
            have been a baby—a dimpled, fat, laughing baby? The
            thing was unbelievable.</p>
        <p>“Don’t speak impertinently to <em>me</em>,” said Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“You see,” said Miss Brownell, significantly.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_175">175</a></span></p>
        <p>“I don’t mean to be impertinent, but you are <em>not</em>
            sorry,” persisted Emily. “You are angry because you
            think I have disgraced New Moon, but you are a little
            glad that you have got some one to agree with you that
            I’m bad.”</p>
        <p>“What a <em>grateful</em> child,” said Miss Brownell—flashing
            her eyes up at the ceiling—where they encountered
            a surprising sight. Perry Miller’s head—and no more
            of him—was stuck down out of the “black hole” and
            on Perry Miller’s upside-down face was a most disrespectful
            and impish grimace. Face and head disappeared
            in a flash, leaving Miss Brownell staring foolishly
            at the ceiling.</p>
        <p>“You have been behaving disgracefully in school,”
            said Aunt Elizabeth, who had not seen this by-play. “I
            am ashamed of you.”</p>
        <p>“It was not as bad as that, Aunt Elizabeth,” said Emily
            steadily. “You see it was this way—”</p>
        <p>“I don’t want to hear anything more about it,” said
            Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“But you must,” cried Emily. “It isn’t fair to listen
            only to <em>her</em> side. I was a little bad—but not so bad as
            she says—”</p>
        <p>“Not another word! I have heard the whole story,”
            said Aunt Elizabeth grimly.</p>
        <p>“You heard a pack of lies,” said Perry, suddenly
            sticking his head down through the black hole again.</p>
        <p>Everybody jumped—even Aunt Elizabeth, who at once
            became angrier than ever because she <em>had</em> jumped.</p>
        <p>“Perry Miller, come down out of that loft instantly!”
            she commanded.</p>
        <p>“Can’t,” said Perry laconically.</p>
        <p>“At once, I say!”</p>
        <p>“Can’t,” repeated Perry, winking audaciously at Miss
            Brownell.</p>
        <p>“Perry Miller, come down! I <em>will</em> be obeyed. I am
            mistress here <em>yet</em>.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_176">176</a></span></p>
        <p>“Oh, all right,” said Perry cheerfully. “If I must.”</p>
        <p>He swung himself down until his toes touched the ladder.
            Aunt Laura gave a little shriek. Everybody else
            seemed to be stricken dumb.</p>
        <p>“I’ve just got my wet duds off,” Perry was saying
            cheerfully, waving his legs about to get a foothold on
            the ladder while he hung to the sides of the black hole
            with his elbows. “Fell into the brook when I was watering
            the cows. Was going to put on dry ones—but just
            as you say—”</p>
        <p>“Jimmy,” implored poor Elizabeth Murray, surrendering
            at discretion. <em>She</em> could not cope with the situation.</p>
        <p>“Perry, get back into that loft and get your clothes on
            this minute!” ordered Cousin Jimmy.</p>
        <p>The bare legs shot up and disappeared. There was
            a chuckle as mirthful and malicious as an owl’s beyond
            the black hole. Aunt Elizabeth gave a convulsive gasp
            of relief and turned to Emily. She was determined to
            regain ascendancy and Emily must be thoroughly humbled.</p>
        <p>“Emily, kneel down here before Miss Brownell and
            ask her pardon for your conduct to-day,” she said.</p>
        <p>Into Emily’s pale cheek came a scarlet protest. She
            could not do this—she would ask pardon of Miss Brownell
            but not on her knees. To kneel to this cruel woman
            who had hurt her so—she could not—would not do it.
            Her whole nature rose up in protest against such a
            humiliation.</p>
        <p>“Kneel down,” repeated Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>Miss Brownell looked pleased and expectant. It
            would be very satisfying to see this child who had defied
            her kneeling before her as a penitent. Never again,
            Miss Brownell felt, would Emily be able to look levelly
            at her with those dauntless eyes that bespoke a soul untamable
            and free, no matter what punishment might be
            inflicted upon body or mind. The memory of this<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_177">177</a></span>
            moment would always be with Emily—she could never
            forget that she had knelt in abasement. Emily felt this
            as clearly as Miss Brownell did and remained stubbornly
            on her feet.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth, <em>please</em> let me tell my side of the
            story,” she pleaded.</p>
        <p>“I have heard all I wish to hear of the matter. You
            will do as I say, Emily, or you will be outcast in this
            house until you do. No one will talk to you—play with
            you—eat with you—have anything to do with you until
            you have obeyed me.”</p>
        <p>Emily shuddered. <em>That</em> was a punishment she could
            not face. To be cut off from her world—she knew it
            would bring her to terms before long. She might as
            well yield at once—but, oh, the bitterness, the shame of
            it!</p>
        <p>“A human being should not kneel to any one but God,”
            said Cousin Jimmy, unexpectedly, still staring at the
            ceiling.</p>
        <p>A sudden strange change came over Elizabeth Murray’s
            proud, angry face. She stood very still, looking at
            Cousin Jimmy—stood so long that Miss Brownell made
            a motion of petulant impatience.</p>
        <p>“Emily,” said Aunt Elizabeth in a different tone, “I
            was wrong—I shall not ask you to kneel. But you must
            apologize to your teacher—and I shall punish you later
            on.”</p>
        <p>Emily put her hands behind her and looked straight
            into Miss Brownell’s eyes again.</p>
        <p>“I am sorry for anything I did to-day that was wrong,”
            she said, “and I ask your pardon for it.”</p>
        <p>Miss Brownell got on her feet. She felt herself cheated
            of a legitimate triumph. Whatever Emily’s punishment
            would be she would not have the satisfaction of
            seeing it. She could have shaken “simple Jimmy
            Murray” with a right good will. But it would hardly<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_178">178</a></span>
            do to show all she felt. Elizabeth Murray was not a
            trustee but she was the heaviest ratepayer in New Moon
            and had great influence with the School Board.</p>
        <p>“I shall excuse your conduct if you behave yourself
            in future, Emily,” she said coldly. “<em>I</em> feel that I have
            only done my duty in putting the matter before your
            aunt. No, thank you, Miss Murray, I cannot stay to
            supper—I want to get home before it is too dark.”</p>
        <p>“God speed all travellers,” said Perry cheerfully,
            climbing down his ladder—this time with his clothes on.</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth ignored him—she was not going to
            have a scene with a hired boy before Miss Brownell. The
            latter switched herself out and Aunt Elizabeth looked
            at Emily.</p>
        <p>“You will eat your supper alone to-night, Emily, in the
            pantry—you will have bread and milk only. And you
            will not speak one word to anyone until to-morrow morning.”</p>
        <p>“But you won’t forbid me to think?” said Emily
            anxiously.</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth made no reply but sat haughtily down
            at the supper table. Emily went into the pantry and
            ate her bread and milk, with the odour of the delicious sausages
            the others were eating for savour. Emily liked
            sausages, and New Moon sausages were the last word
            in sausages. Elizabeth Burnley had brought the recipe
            out from the Old Country and its secret was carefully
            guarded. And Emily was hungry. But she had escaped
            the unbearable, and things might be worse. It suddenly
            occurred to her that she would write an epic poem in imitation
            of <cite>The Lay Of The Last Minstrel</cite>. Cousin Jimmy
            had read <cite>The Lay</cite> to her last Saturday. She would
            begin the first canto right off. When Laura Murray
            came into the pantry, Emily, her bread and milk only
            half eaten, was leaning her elbows on the dresser, gazing
            into space, with faintly moving lips and the light
            that never was on land or sea in her young eyes. Even<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_179">179</a></span>
            the aroma of sausages was forgotten—was she not
            drinking from a fount of Castaly?</p>
        <p>“Emily,” said Aunt Laura, shutting the door, and
            looking very lovingly upon Emily out of her kind blue
            eyes, “you can talk to <em>me</em> all you want to. I don’t like
            Miss Brownell and I don’t think you were altogether in
            the wrong—although of course you shouldn’t be writing
            poetry when you have sums to do. And there are some
            ginger cookies in that box.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t want to talk to any one, dear Aunt Laura—I’m
            too happy,” said Emily dreamily. “I’m composing
            an epic—it is to be called <i>The White Lady</i>, and I’ve got
            twenty lines of it made already—and two of them are
            thrilling. The heroine wants to go into a convent and
            her father warns her that if she does she will never be
            able to</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">Come back to the life you gave</div>
                    <div class="line">With all its pleasures to the grave.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Oh, Aunt Laura, when I composed those lines the flash
            came to me. And ginger cookies are nothing to me any
            more.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Laura smiled again.</p>
        <p>“Not just now perhaps, dear. But when the moment
            of inspiration has passed it will do no harm to remember
            that the cookies in the box have not been counted and
            that they are as much mine as Elizabeth’s.”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xvii" />CHAPTER XVII<br />
                <span>Living Epistles</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap"><span class="dropcap2">“</span>D</span>EAR FATHER:
            “O, I have such an exiting thing to tell you. I have
            been the heroin of an adventure. One day last week
            Ilse asked me if I would go and stay all night with her<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_180">180</a></span>
            because her father was away and wouldn’t be home till
            very late and Ilse said she wasn’t fritened but very lonesome.
            So I asked Aunt Elizabeth if I could. I hardly
            dared hope, dear Father, that she would let me, for
            she doesn’t aprove of little girls being away from home
            at night but to my surprise she said I could go very
            kindly. And then I heard her say in the pantry to
            Aunt Laura It is a shame the way the doctor leaves that
            poor child so much alone at nights. It is <em>wikked</em> of
            him. And Aunt Laura said The poor man is warped.
            You know he was not a bit like that before his wife—and
            then just as it was getting intresting Aunt Elizabeth
            gave Aunt Laura a nudge and said s-s-s-h, little pitchers
            have big ears. I knew she meant me though my ears
            are not big, only pointed. I do wish I could find out
            what Ilse’s mother did. It worrys me after I go to bed.
            I lie awake for ever so long thinking about it. Ilse has
            no idea. Once she asked her father and he told her (in
            a <em>voice of thunder</em>) never to mention <em>that woman</em> to him
            again. And there is something else that worrys me too.
            I keep thinking of Silas Lee who killed his brother at
            the old well. How dreadful the poor man must have felt.
            And what is it to be warped.</p>
        <p>“I went over to Ilses and we played in the garret.
            I like playing there because we dont have to be careful
            and tidy like we do in our garret. Ilses garret is very
            untidy and cant have been dusted for years. The rag
            room is worse than the rest. It is boarded off at one
            end of the garret and it is full of old close and bags of
            rags and broken furniture. I dont like the smell of it.
            The kitchen chimney goes up through it and things hang
            round it (or did). For all this is in the past now, dear
            Father.</p>
        <p>“When we got tired playing we sat down on an old
            chest and talked. This is splendid in daytime I said but
            it must be awful queer at night. Mice, said Ilse,—and
            spiders and gosts. I dont believe in gosts I said skornfully.<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_181">181</a></span>
            There isnt any such thing. (But maybe there
            is for all that, dear Father.) I believe this garret is
            hawnted, said Ilse. They say garrets always are. Nonsense
            I said. You know dear Father it would not do
            for a New Moon person to believe in gosts. But I felt
            very queer. Its easy to talk said Ilse beginning to be
            mad (though I wasnt trying to run down her garret)
            but you wouldnt stay here alone at night. I wouldnt
            mind it a bit I said. Then I dare you to do it said Ilse.
            I dare you to come up here at bedtime and sleep here all
            night. Then I saw I was in an awful skrape Father dear.
            It is a foolish thing to bost. I knew not what to do.
            It was dreadful to think of sleeping alone in that garret
            but if I didnt Ilse would always cast it up to me whenever
            we fought and worse than that she would tell Teddy
            and he would think me a coward. So I said proudly
            Ill do it Ilse Burnley and Im not afraid to either.
            (But oh I was—inside.) The mice will run over you
            said Ilse. O I wouldnt be you for the world. It was
            mean of Ilse to make things worse than they were. But
            I could feel she admired me too and that helped me a
            great deal. We dragged an old feather bed out of the
            rag room and Ilse gave me a pillow and half her close.
            It was dark by this time and Ilse wouldnt go up into
            the garret again. So I said my prayers very carefully
            and then I took a lamp and started up. I am so used
            to candles now that the lamp made me nervus. Ilse
            said I looked scared to death. My knees shook dear
            Father but for the honnor of the Starrs (and the Murrays
            too) I went on. I had undressed in Ilses room,
            so I got right into bed and blew out the lamp. But I
            couldnt go to sleep for a long time. The moonlight
            made the garret look weerd. I dont know exactly what
            weerd means but I feel the garret was it. The bags and
            old close hanging from the beams looked like creatures.
            I thought I need not be fritened. The angels are here.
            But then I felt as if I would be as much fritened of<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_182">182</a></span>
            angels as of anything else. And I could hear rats and
            mice scrambling over things. I thought What if a rat
            was to run over me, and then I thought that next day
            I would write out a descripshon of the garret by moonlight
            and my feelings. At last I heard the doctor driving
            in and then I heard him knocking round in the kitchen
            and I felt better and before very long I went to sleep
            and I dreamed a dreadful dream. I dreamed the door
            of the rag room opened and a big newspaper came out
            and chased me all around the garret. And then it went
            on fire and I could smell the smoke plain as plain and it
            was just on me when I skreamed and woke up. I was
            sitting right up in bed and the newspaper was gone but
            I could smell smoke still. I looked at the rag room door
            and smoke was coming out under it and I saw firelight
            through the cracks of the boards. I just yelled at the
            top of my voice and tore down to Ilses room and she
            rushed across the hall and woke her father. He said
            dam but he got right up and then all three of us kept
            running up and down the garret stairs with pails of
            water and we made an awful mess but we got the fire
            out. It was just the bags of wool that had been hanging
            close to the chimney that had caught fire. When all
            was over the doctor wiped the persperation from his
            manly brow and said That was a close call. A few minutes
            later would have been too late. I put on a fire
            when I came in to make a cup of tea and I suppose
            those bags must have caught fire from a spark. I see
            theres a hole here where the plaster has tumbled out.
            I must have this whole place cleaned out. How in the
            world did you come to diskover the fire, Emily. I was
            sleeping in the garret I said. Sleeping in the garret said
            the doctor, what in—what the—<em>what</em> were you doing
            there. Ilse dared me I said. She said Id be too scared
            to stay there and I said I wouldnt. I fell asleep and
            woke up and smelled smoke. You little devil, said the
            doctor. I suppose it was a dreadful thing to be called<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_183">183</a></span>
            a devil but the doctor looked at me so admiringly that
            I felt as if he was paying me a compelment. He has
            queer ways of talking. Ilse says the only time he ever
            said a kind thing to her was once when she had a sore
            throat he called her “a poor little animal” and looked as
            if he was sorry for her. I feel sure Ilse feels dreadfully
            bad because her father doesnt like her though she
            pretends she does not care. But oh dear Father there
            is more to tell. Yesterday the Shrewsbury <cite>Weekly
                Times</cite> came and in the Blair Notes it told all about the
            fire at the doctors and said it had been fortunately diskovered
            in time by Miss Emily Starr. I cant tell you
            what I felt like when I saw my name in the paper. I
            felt <em>famus</em>. And I never was called Miss in ernest before.</p>
        <p>“Last Saturday Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt Laura went
            to Shrewsbury for the day and left Cousin Jimmy and
            me to keep house. We had such fun and Cousin Jimmy
            let me skim all the milk pans. But after dinner unexpekted
            company came and there was no cake in the house. That
            was a dreadful thing. It never happened before in the
            annels of New Moon. Aunt Elizabeth had toothache
            all day yesterday and Aunt Laura was away at Priest
            Pond visiting Great Aunt Nancy, so no cake was made.
            I prayed about it and then I went to work and made a
            cake by Aunt Laura’s receet and it turned out all right.
            Cousin Jimmy helped me set the table and get supper,
            and I poured the tea and never slopped any over in the
            saucers. You would have been proud of me Father.
            Mrs. Lewis took a second piece of cake and said I would
            know Elizabeth Murrays cake if I found it in central
            Africa. I said not a word for the honnor of the family.
            But I felt very proud. I had saved the Murrays from
            disgrace. When Aunt Elizabeth came home and heard
            the tale she looked grim and tasted a piece that was left
            and then she said Well, you have got <em>some</em> Murray in
            you anyway. That is the first time Aunt Elizabeth has<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_184">184</a></span>
            ever praised me. She had three teeth out so they will not
            ache any more. I am glad for her sake. Before I went
            to bed I got the cook book and picked out all the things
            Id like to make. Queen Pudding, Sea-foam Sauce,
            Blackeyed Susans, Pigs In Blankets. They sound just
            lovely.</p>
        <p>“I can see such beautiful fluffy white clouds over
            Lofty Johns bush. I wish I could sore up and drop
            right into them. I cant believe they would be wet and
            messy like Teddy says. Teddy cut my initials and his
            together on the Monark of The Forest but somebody
            has cut them out. I don’t know whether it was Perry
            or Ilse.</p>
        <p>“Miss Brownell hardly ever gives me good deportment
            marks now and Aunt Elizabeth is much displeased
            on Friday nights but Aunt Laura understands. I wrote
            an account of the afternoon when Miss Brownell made
            fun of my poems and put it in an old envelope and wrote
            Aunt Elizabeths name on it and put it among my papers.
            If I die of consumption Aunt Elizabeth will find it and
            know the rites of it and mourn that she was so unjust
            to me. But I don’t think I will die because Im getting
            much fatter and Ilse told me she heard her father tell
            Aunt Laura I would be handsome if I had more color.
            Is it wrong to want to be handsome, dearest Father.
            Aunt Elizabeth says it is and when I said to her Wouldn’t
            <em>you</em> like to be handsome, Aunt Elizabeth, she seemed
            anoyed about something.
        </p>
        <p>“Miss Brownell has had a spite at Perry ever since
            that evening and treats him very mean but he is meek
            and says he wont kick up any fuss in school because
            he wants to learn and get ahead. He keeps saying his
            rymes are as good as mine and I know they are not and
            it exassperates me. If I do not pay attention all the time
            in school Miss Brownell says I suppose you are composing—poetry
            Emily and then everybody laughs. No not
            everybody. I must not exagerate. Teddy and Perry and<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_185">185</a></span>
            Ilse and Jennie never laugh. It is funny that I like Jennie
            so well now and I hated her so that first day in school.
            Her eyes are not piggy after all. They are small but
            they are jolly and twinkly. She is quite poplar in school.
            I do hate Frank Barker. He took my new reader
            and wrote in a big sprawly way all over the front
            page</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">Steal not this book for fear of shame</div>
                    <div class="line">For on it is the owners name</div>
                    <div class="line">And when you die the Lord will say</div>
                    <div class="line">Where is that book you stole away</div>
                    <div class="line">And when you say you do not know</div>
                    <div class="line">The Lord will say go down below.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>“That is not a refined poem and besides it is not the
            rite way to speak about God. I tore out the leaf and
            burned it and Aunt Elizabeth was angry and even when
            I explained why her rath was not apeased. Ilse says
            she is going to call God Alla after this. I think it is a
            nicer name myself. It is so soft and doesn’t sound so
            stern. But I fear its not relijus enough.</p>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">May 20.</span></p>
        <p>“Yesterday was my birthday dear Father. It will
            soon be a year since I came to New Moon. I feel as
            if I had always lived here. I have grown two inches.
            Cousin Jimmy measured me by a mark on the dairy door.
            My birthday was very nice. Aunt Laura made a lovely
            cake and gave me a beautiful new white pettycoat with
            an embroidered flounce. She had run a blue ribbon
            through it but Aunt Elizabeth made her pull it out. And
            Aunt Laura also gave me that piece of pink satin brokade
            in her burow drawer. I have longed for it ever since
            I saw it but never hoped to possess it. Ilse asked me what
            I meant to do with it but I dont mean to do anything
            with it. Only keep it up here in the garret with my
            treasures and look at it, because it is beautiful. Aunt<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_186">186</a></span>
            Elizabeth gave me a dixonary. That was a useful present.
            I feel I ought to like it. You will soon notice an
            improovement in my spelling, I hope. The only trouble
            is when I am writing something interesting I get so exited
            it is just awful to have to stop and hunt up a word
            to see how it is spelled. I looked up ween in it and Miss
            Brownell was right. I did not know what it really
            meant. It rymed so well with sheen and I thought it
            meant to behold or see but it means to think. Cousin
            Jimmy gave me a big thick blank book. I am so proud
            of it. It will be so nice to write pieces in. But I will
            still use the letter-bills to write to you, dear Father, because
            I can fold each one up by itself and adress it like
            a real letter. Teddy gave me a picture of myself. He
            painted it in water colors and called it The Smiling Girl.
            I look as if I was listening to something that made me
            very happy. Ilse says it flatters me. It does make me
            better looking than I am but not any better looking than
            I would be if I could have a bang. Teddy says he is
            going to paint a real big picture of me when he grows
            up. Perry walked all the way to Shrewsbury to get
            me a necklace of pearl beads and lost it. He had no more
            money so he went home to Stovepipe Town and got a
            young hen from his Aunt Tom and gave me that. He
            is a very persistent boy. I am to have all the eggs the
            hen lays to sell the pedler for myself. Ilse gave me a
            box of candy. I am only going to eat one piece a day
            to make it last a long time. I wanted Ilse to eat some
            but she said she wouldnt because it would be mean to
            help eat a present you had given and I insisted and then
            we fought over it and Ilse said I was a caterwawling
            quadruped (which was ridiklus) and didn’t know enough
            to come in when it rained. And I said I knew enough
            to have some manners at least. Ilse got so mad she
            went home but she cooled off soon and came back for
            supper.</p>
        <p>“It is raining tonight and it sounds like fairies feet<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_187">187</a></span>
            dancing over the garret roof. If it had not rained Teddy
            was going to come down and help me look for the Lost
            Dimond. Wouldnt it be splendid if we could find
            it.</p>
        <p>“Cousin Jimmy is fixing up the garden. He lets me
            help him and I have a little flower bed of my own. I
            always run out first thing every morning to see how much
            the things have grown since yesterday. Spring is such
            a happyfying time isnt it, Father. The little Blue People
            are all out round the summer house. That is what
            Cousin Jimmy calls the violets and I think it is lovely.
            He has names like that for all the flowers. The roses
            are the Queens and the June lilies are the Snow Ladies
            and the tulips are the Gay Folk and the daffodils are the
            Golden Ones and the China Asters are My Pink Friends.</p>
        <p>“Mike II is here with me, sitting on the window-sill.
            Mike is a smee cat. Smee is not in the dictionary. It
            is a word I invented myself. I could not think of any
            English word which just describes Mike II so I made
            this up. It means sleek and glossy and soft and fluffy
            all in one and something else besides that I cant express.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Laura is teaching me to sew. She says I must
            learn to make a hem on muslin that can’t be seen (tradishun).
            I hope she will teach me how to make point
            lace some day. All the Murrays of New Moon have
            been noted for making point lace (I mean all the women
            Murrays). None of the girls in school can make point
            lace. Aunt Laura says she will make me a point lace
            hangkerchief when I get married. All the New Moon
            brides had point lace hangkerchiefs except my mother
            who ran away. But you didnt mind her not having one
            did you Father. Aunt Laura talks a good bit about my
            mother to me but not when Aunt Elizabeth is around.
            Aunt Elizabeth never mentions her name. Aunt Laura
            wants to show me Mothers room but she has never been
            able to find the key yet because Aunt Elizabeth keeps it<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_188">188</a></span>
            hid. Aunt Laura says Aunt Elizabeth loved my mother
            very much. You would think she would love her
            daughter some wouldnt you. But she doesnt. She is
            just bringing me up as a duty.</p>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">June 1.</span></p>
        <p class="mb0 noi">“<span class="smcap">Dear Father</span>:</p>
        <p class="mt0">“This has been a very important day. I wrote my
            first letter, I mean the first letter that was really to go
            in the mail. It was to Great-Aunt Nancy who lives at
            Priest Pond and is very old. She wrote Aunt Elizabeth
            and said I might write now and then to a poor old
            woman. My heart was touched and I wanted to. Aunt
            Elizabeth said We might as well let her. And she said
            to me You must be careful to write a nice letter and I
            will read it over when it is written. If you make a good
            impression on Aunt Nancy she may do something for
            you. I wrote the letter very carefully but it didn’t
            sound a bit like me when it was finished. I couldn’t
            write a good letter when I knew Aunt Elizabeth was
            going to read it. I felt paralized.</p>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">June 7.</span></p>
        <p>“Dear Father, my letter did not make a good impression
            on Great-Aunt Nancy. She did not answer it but
            she wrote Aunt Elizabeth that I must be a very stupid
            child to write such a stupid letter. I feel insulted because
            I am not stupid. Perry says he feels like going to Priest
            Pond and knocking the daylights out of Great-Aunt
            Nancy. I told him he must not talk like that about my
            family, and anyhow I dont see how knocking the daylights
            out of Great-Aunt Nancy would make her change
            her opinion about me being stupid. (I wonder what
            daylights are and how you knock them out of people.)</p>
        <p>“I have three cantos of <i>The White Lady</i> finished. I
            have the heroin imured in a convent and I dont know<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_189">189</a></span>
            how to get her out because I am not a Catholic. I suppose
            it would have been better if I had a Protestant
            heroin but there were no Protestants in the days of shivalry.
            I might have asked Lofty John last year but this
            year I cant because Ive never spoken to him since he
            played that horrid joke on me about the apple. When
            I meet him on the road I look straight ahead just as lofty
            as he does. I have called my pig after him to get square.
            Cousin Jimmy has given me a little pig for my own.
            When it is sold I am to have the money. I mean to give
            some for missionaries and put the rest in the bank to go
            to my educashun. And I thought if I ever had a pig I
            would call it Uncle Wallace. But now it does not seem
            to me propper to call pigs after your uncles even if you
            dont like them.</p>
        <p>“Teddy and Perry and Ilse and I play we are living in
            the days of shivalry and Ilse and I are distressed damsels
            reskued by galant knites. Teddy made a splendid
            suit of armor out of old barrel staves and then Perry
            made a better one out of old tin boilers hammered flat
            with a broken saucepan for a helmit. Sometimes we
            play at the Tansy Patch. I have a queer feeling that
            Teddys mother hates me this summer. Last summer
            she just didnt like me. Smoke and Buttercup are not
            there now. They disappeared misteriously in the winter.
            Teddy says he feels sure his mother poisoned them because
            she thought he was getting too fond of them.
            Teddy is teaching me to whistle but Aunt Laura says
            it is unladylike. So many jolly things seem to be unladylike.
            Sometimes I almost wish my aunts were
            infidels like Dr. Burnly. <em>He</em> never bothers whether Ilse
            is unladylike or not. But no, it would not be good manners
            to be an infidel. It would not be a New Moon
            tradishun.</p>
        <p>“Today I taught Perry that he must not eat with his
            knife. He wants to learn all the <em>rules of etiket</em>. And<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_190">190</a></span>
            I am helping him learn a recitation for school examination
            day. I wanted Ilse to do it but she was mad because
            he asked me first and she wouldnt. But she should because
            she is a far better reciter than I am. I am too
            nervus.</p>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">June 14.</span></p>
        <p>“Dear Father, we have composition in school now and
            I learned today that you put in things like this “ ” when
            you write anything anybody has said. I didnt know that
            before. I must go over all my letters to you and put
            them in. And after a question you must put a mark like
            this ? and when a letter is left out a postroffe which is
            a comma up in the air. Miss Brownell is sarkastic but
            she <em>does</em> teach you things. I am putting that down because
            I want to be fair even if I do hate her. And she is
            interesting although she is not nice. I have written a
            descripshun of her on a letter-bill. I like writing about
            people I don’t like better than about those I do like.
            Aunt Laura is nicer to live with than Aunt Elizabeth,
            but Aunt Elizabeth is nicer to write about. I can deskribe
            <em>her</em> fawlts but I feel wikked and ungrateful if I say
            anything that is not compelmentary about dear Aunt
            Laura. Aunt Elizabeth has locked your books away and
            says I’m not to have them till I’m grown up. Just as if
            I wouldn’t be careful of them, dear Father. She says
            I wouldn’t because she found that when I was reading
            one of them I put a tiny pencil dot under every beautiful
            word. It didn’t hurt the book a bit, dear Father. Some
            of the words were dingles, pearled, musk, dappled, intervales,
            glen, bosky, piping, shimmer, crisp, beechen, ivory.
            I think those are all lovely words, Father.
        </p>
        <p>“Aunt Laura lets me read her copy of A Pilgrims Progress
            on Sundays. I call the big hill in the road to White
            Cross the Delectable Mountain because it is such a beautiful
            one.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_191">191</a></span></p>
        <p>“Teddy lent me 3 books of poetry. One of them
            was Tennyson and I have learned The Bugle Song off by
            heart so I will always have it. One was Mrs. Browning.
            She is lovely. I would like to meet her. I suppose
            I will when I die but that may be a long time away.
            The other was just one poem called Sohrab and Rustum.
            After I went to bed I cried over it. Aunt Elizabeth said
            “what are you sniffling about?” I wasn’t sniffling—I
            was weeping sore. She made me tell her and then she
            said “You must be crazy.” But I couldn’t go to sleep
            until I had thought out a different end for it—a happy
            one.</p>
        <p class="right2"><span class="smcap">“June 25.</span></p>
        <p class="mb0 noi">“<span class="smcap">Dear Father</span>:</p>
        <p class="mt0">“There has been a dark shadow over this day. I
            dropped my cent in church. It made a dreadful noise.
            I felt as if everybody looked at me. Aunt Elizabeth was
            much annoyed. Perry dropped his too soon after. He
            told me after church he did it on purpose because he
            thought it would make me feel better but it didn’t because
            I was afraid the people would think it was me dropping
            mine again. Boys do such queer things. I hope the
            minister did not hear because I am beginning to like him.
            I never liked him much before last Tuesday. His family
            are all boys and I suppose he doesn’t understand little
            girls very well. Then he called at New Moon. Aunt
            Laura and Aunt Elizabeth were both away and I was in
            the kitchen alone. Mr. Dare came in and sat down on
            Saucy Sal who was asleep in the rocking-chair. He was
            comfortable but Saucy Sal wasn’t. He didn’t sit on her
            stomach. If he had I suppose he would have killed her.
            He just sat on her legs and tail. Sal yowled but Mr.
            Dare is a little deaf and didn’t hear her and I was too
            shy to tell him. But Cousin Jimmy came in just as he
            was asking me if I knew my catechism and said “Catechism,<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_192">192</a></span>
            is it? Lawful heart, man, listen to that poor dum
            beast. Get up if you’re a Christian.” So Mr. Dare got
            up and said, “Dear me, this is very remarkable. I
            thought I felt something moving.”</p>
        <p>“I thought I would write this to you, dear Father, because
            it struck me as humerus.</p>
        <p>“When Mr. Dare finished asking me questions I
            thought it was my turn and I would ask him some about
            some things I’ve wanted to know for years. I asked him
            if he thought God was very perticular about every little
            thing I did and if he thought my cats would go to heaven.
            He said he hoped I never did wrong things and that animals
            had no souls. And I asked him why we shouldn’t
            put new wine in old bottles. Aunt Elizabeth does with
            her dandelion wine and the old bottles do just as well as
            new ones. He explained quite kindly that the Bible bottles
            were made of skins and got rotten when they were
            old. It made it quite clear to me. Then I told him I was
            worried because I knew I ought to love God better than
            anything but there were things I loved better than God.
            He said “What things?” and I said flowers and stars
            and the Wind Woman and the Three Princesses and
            things like that. And he smiled and said “But they are
            just a part of God, Emily—every beautiful thing is.”
            And all at once I liked him ever so much and didn’t feel
            shy with him any more. He preeched a sermon on
            heaven last Sunday. It seemed like a dull place. I
            think it must be more exiting than that. I wonder what
            I will do when I go to heaven since I cant sing. I wonder
            if they will let me write poetry. But I think church
            is interesting. Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt Laura always
            read their Bibles before the servis begins but I like to
            stare around and see everybody and wonder what they
            are thinking of. It’s so nice to hear the silk dresses
            swishing up the isles. Bustles are very fashunable now
            but Aunt Elizabeth will not wear them. I think Aunt<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_193">193</a></span>
            Elizabeth <em>would</em> look funny with a bustle. Aunt Laura
            wears a very little one.</p>
        <p class="mb0 center">“Your lovingest daughter,</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>Emily B. Starr</em>.</p>
        <p class="mb0">“P. S. Dear Father, it is lovely to write to you. But
            O, I never get an answer back.</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>E. B. S.</em>”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xviii" />CHAPTER XVIII<br />
                <span>Father Cassidy</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">C</span>ONSTERNATION reigned at New Moon. Everybody
            was desperately unhappy. Aunt Laura cried.
            Aunt Elizabeth was so cantankerous that there was no
            living with her. Cousin Jimmy went about as one distracted
            and Emily gave up worrying about Ilse’s
            mother and Silas Lee’s remorseful ghost after she went
            to bed, and worried over this new trouble. For it had all
            originated in her disregard of New Moon tradition in
            making calls on Lofty John, and Aunt Elizabeth did not
            mince matters in telling her so. If she, Emily Byrd
            Starr, had never gone to Lofty John’s she would never
            have eaten the Big Sweet apple, and if she had never
            eaten the Big Sweet apple Lofty John would not have
            played a joke on her and if he had not played a joke on
            her Aunt Elizabeth would never have gone and said
            bitter, Murray-like things to him; and if Aunt Elizabeth
            had never said bitter Murray-like things to him Lofty
            John would not have become offended and revengeful;
            and if Lofty John had not become offended and revengeful
            he would never have taken it into his lofty head to cut
            down the beautiful grove to the north of New Moon.</p>
        <p>For this was exactly where this house-that-Jack-built<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_194">194</a></span>
            progression had landed them all. Lofty John had announced
            publicly in the Blair Water blacksmith shop
            that he was going to cut down the bush as soon as harvest
            was over—every last tree and sapling was to be laid
            low. The news was promptly carried to New Moon and
            upset the inhabitants thereof as they had not been upset
            for years. In their eyes it was nothing short of a catastrophe.</p>
        <p>Elizabeth and Laura could hardly bring themselves to
            believe it. The thing was incredible. That big, thick,
            protecting bush of spruce and hardwood had <em>always</em> been
            there; it belonged to New Moon <em>morally</em>; even Lofty
            John Sullivan would not <em>dare</em> to cut it down. But Lofty
            John had an uncomfortable reputation for doing what
            he said he would do; that was a part of his loftiness; and
            if he did—if he did—</p>
        <p>“New Moon will be ruined,” wailed poor Aunt Laura.
            “It will look <em>dreadful</em>—<em>all</em> its beauty will go—and we
            will be left open to the north wind and the sea storms—we
            have always been so warm and sheltered here. And
            Jimmy’s garden will be ruined too.”</p>
        <p>“This is what comes of bringing Emily here,” said
            Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>It was a cruel thing to say, even when all allowances
            were made,—cruel and unjust, since her own sharp tongue
            and Murray sarcasm had had quite as much to do
            with it as Emily. But she said it and it pierced Emily
            to the heart with a pang that left a scar for years. Poor
            Emily did not feel as if she needed any additional anguish.
            She was already feeling so wretched that she
            could not eat or sleep. Elizabeth Murray, angry and
            unhappy as she was, slept soundly at nights; but beside
            her in the darkness, afraid to move or turn, lay a slender
            little creature whose tears, stealing silently down her
            cheeks, could not ease her breaking heart. For Emily
            thought her heart <em>was</em> breaking; she couldn’t go on living
            and suffering like this. Nobody could.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_195">195</a></span></p>
        <p>Emily had lived long enough at New Moon for it to
            get pretty thoroughly into her blood. Perhaps it had
            even been born there. At any rate, when she came to it
            she fitted into its atmosphere as a hand into a glove.
            She loved it as well as if she had lived there all her short
            life—loved every stick and stone and tree and blade of
            grass about it—every nail in the old kitchen floor, every
            cushion of green moss on the dairy roof, every pink and
            white columbine that grew in the old orchard, every
            “tradition” of its history. To think of its beauty being
            in a large measure reft from it was agony to her. And
            to think of Cousin Jimmy’s garden being ruined! Emily
            loved that garden almost as much as he did; why, it
            was the pride of Cousin Jimmy’s life that he could grow
            there plants and shrubs that would winter nowhere else
            in P. E. Island; if the northern shelter were removed
            they would die. And to think of that beautiful bush itself
            being cut down—the Today Road and the Yesterday
            Road and the Tomorrow Road being swept out of existence—the
            stately Monarch of the Forest discrowned—the
            little playhouse where she and Ilse had such glorious
            hours destroyed—the whole lovely, ferny, intimate
            place torn out of her life at one fell swoop.</p>
        <p>Oh, Lofty John had chosen and timed his vengeance
            well!</p>
        <p>When would the blow fall? Every morning Emily
            listened miserably as she stood on the sandstone doorstep
            of the kitchen, for the sound of axe blows on the
            clear September air. Every evening when she returned
            from school she dreaded to see that the work of destruction
            had begun. She pined and fretted. There were
            times when it seemed to her she couldn’t bear her life
            any longer. Every day Aunt Elizabeth said something
            imputing the whole blame to her and the child grew morbidly
            sensitive about it. Almost she wished Lofty John
            would begin and be done with it. If Emily had ever
            heard the classic story of Damocles she would have<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_196">196</a></span>
            heartily sympathized with him. If she had had any hope
            that it would do any good she would have swallowed
            Murray pride and Starr pride and every other kind of
            pride and gone on her knees to Lofty John to entreat him
            to hold his revengeful hand. But she believed it would
            not. Lofty John had left no doubt in anybody’s mind
            as to his bitter determination in the matter. There was
            much talk about it in Blair Water and some were very
            well pleased at this blow to New Moon pride and prestige,
            and some held that it was low and unclean behaviour on
            Lofty John’s part, and all agreed that this was what they
            had prophesied all along as bound to happen some day
            when the old Murray-Sullivan feud of three generations
            should have come to its inevitable head. The only surprising
            thing was that Lofty John hadn’t done it long ago.
            He had always hated Elizabeth Murray since their schooldays,
            when her tongue had not spared him.</p>
        <p>One day by the banks of Blair Water Emily sat down
            and wept. She had been sent to trim the dead blossoms
            off the rosebushes on Grandmother Murray’s grave; having
            finished her task she had not the heart to go back to
            the house where Aunt Elizabeth was making everybody
            miserable because she was herself so unhappy. Perry
            had reported that Lofty John had stated the day before
            at the blacksmith’s that he was going to begin cutting
            down the big bush on Monday morning.</p>
        <p>“I <em>can’t</em> bear it,” sobbed Emily to the rosebushes.</p>
        <p>A few late roses nodded at her; the Wind Woman
            combed and waved and stirred the long green grasses on
            the graves where proud Murrays, men and women, slept
            calmly, unstirred by old feuds and passions; the September
            sunlight shone beyond on old harvest fields mellowly
            bright and serene, and very softly against its green, shrub-hung
            bank, purred and lapped the blue Blair Water.</p>
        <p>“I don’t see why God doesn’t <em>stop</em> Lofty John,” said
            Emily passionately. Surely the New Moon Murrays had
            a right to expect that much from Providence.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_197">197</a></span></p>
        <p>Teddy came whistling down the pasture, the notes of
            his tune blowing across the Blair Water like elfin drops
            of sound, vaulted the graveyard fence and perched his
            lean, graceful body irreverently on the “Here I stay” of
            Great-Grandmother Murray’s flat tombstone.</p>
        <p>“What’s the matter?” he said.</p>
        <p>“Everything’s the matter,” said Emily, a little crossly.
            Teddy had no business to be looking so cheerful. She
            was used to more sympathy from Teddy and it aggravated
            her not to find it. “Don’t you know Lofty John
            is going to begin cutting down the bush Monday?”</p>
        <p>Teddy nodded.</p>
        <p>“Yep. Ilse told me. But look here, Emily, I’ve
            thought of something. Lofty John wouldn’t dare cut
            down that bush if the priest told him not to, would he?”</p>
        <p>“Why?”</p>
        <p>“Because the Catholics have to do just what their
            priests tell them to, haven’t they?”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know—I don’t know anything about them.
            <em>We</em> are Presbyterians.”
        </p>
        <p>Emily gave her head a little toss. Mrs. Kent was
            known to be an “English Church” woman and though
            Teddy went to the Presbyterian Sunday School, that fact
            gave him scanty standing among bred-in-the-bone Presbyterian
            circles.</p>
        <p>“If your Aunt Elizabeth went to Father Cassidy at
            White Cross and asked him to stop Lofty John, maybe
            he’d do it,” persisted Teddy.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth would never do that,” said Emily
            positively. “I’m sure of it. She’s too proud.”</p>
        <p>“Not even to save the bush?”</p>
        <p>“Not even for that.”</p>
        <p>“Then I guess nothing can be done,” said Teddy rather
            crest-fallen. “Look here—see what I’ve made. This
            is a picture of Lofty John in purgatory, with three little
            devils sticking red-hot pitch forks into him. I copied
            some of it out of one of mother’s books—Dante’s Infernal,<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_198">198</a></span>
            I think it was—but I put Lofty John in place of the
            man in the book. You can have it.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t want it.” Emily uncoiled her legs and got
            up. She was past the stage when inflicting imaginary
            torments on Lofty John could comfort her. She had
            already slain him in several agonizing ways during her
            night vigils. But an idea had come to her—a daring,
            breathless idea. “I must go home now, Teddy—it’s supper
            time.”</p>
        <p>Teddy pocketed his despised sketch—which was really
            a wonderful bit of work if either of them had had the
            sense to know it; the expression of anguish in Lofty
            John’s face as a merry little devil touched him up with a
            pitchfork would have been the despair of many a trained
            artist. He went home wishing he could help Emily; it
            was all wrong that a creature like Emily—with soft purple-gray
            eyes and a smile that made you think of all sorts
            of wonderful things you couldn’t put into words—should
            be unhappy. Teddy felt so worried about it that he added
            a few more devils to his sketch of Lofty John in purgatory
            and lengthened the prongs of their pitchforks quite
            considerably.</p>
        <p>Emily went home with a determined twist to her
            mouth. She ate as much supper as she could—which
            wasn’t much, for Aunt Elizabeth’s face would have destroyed
            her appetite if she had had any—and then sneaked
            out of the house by the front door. Cousin Jimmy was
            working in his garden but he did not call her. Cousin
            Jimmy was always very sorrowful now. Emily stood
            a moment on the Grecian porch and looked at Lofty
            John’s bush—green-bosomed, waving, all lovely. Would
            it be a desecrated waste of stumps by Monday night?
            Goaded by the thought Emily cast fear and hesitation to
            the winds and started briskly off down the lane. When
            she reached the gate she turned to the left on the long
            red road of mystery that ran up the Delectable Mountain.
            She had never been on that road before; it ran<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_199">199</a></span>
            straight to White Cross; Emily was going to the parish
            house there to interview Father Cassidy. It was two
            miles to White Cross and Emily walked it all too soon—not
            because it was a beautiful road of wind and wild fern,
            haunted by little rabbits—but because she dreaded what
            awaited her at the end. She had been trying to think
            what she should say—how she should say it; but her invention
            failed her. She had no acquaintance with Catholic
            priests, and couldn’t imagine how you should talk to
            them at all. They were even more mysterious and unknowable
            than ministers. Suppose Father Cassidy
            should be dreadfully angry at her daring to come there
            and ask a favour. Perhaps it <em>was</em> a dreadful thing to do
            from every point of view. And very likely it would do
            no good. Very likely Father Cassidy would refuse to
            interfere with Lofty John, who was a good Catholic,
            while she was, in his opinion, a heretic. But for any
            chance, even the faintest, of averting the calamity impending
            over New Moon, Emily would have faced the
            entire Sacred College. Horribly frightened, miserably
            nervous as she was, the idea of turning back never occurred
            to her. She was only sorry that she hadn’t put
            on her Venetian beads. They might have impressed
            Father Cassidy.</p>
        <p>Although Emily had never been to White Cross she
            knew the parish house when she saw it—a fine, tree-embowered
            residence near the big white chapel with the
            flashing gilt cross on its spire and the four gilt angels,
            one on each of the little spires at the corners. Emily
            thought them very beautiful as they gleamed in the light
            of the lowering sun, and wished they could have some on
            the plain white church at Blair Water. She couldn’t understand
            why Catholics should have all the angels. But
            there was not time to puzzle over this, for the door was
            opening and the trim little maid was looking a question.</p>
        <p>“Is—Father Cassidy—at—home?” asked Emily, rather
            jerkily.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_200">200</a></span></p>
        <p>“Yes.”</p>
        <p>“Can—I—see—him?”</p>
        <p>“Come in,” said the little maid. Evidently there was
            no difficulty about seeing Father Cassidy—no mysterious
            ceremonies such as Emily had half expected, even if she
            were allowed to see him at all. She was shown into a
            book-lined room and left there, while the maid went to
            call Father Cassidy, who, she said, was working in the
            garden. <em>That</em> sounded quite natural and encouraging.
            If Father Cassidy worked in a garden, he could not be so
            very terrible.</p>
        <p>Emily looked about her curiously. She was in a very
            pretty room—with cosy chairs, and pictures and flowers.
            Nothing alarming or uncanny about it—except a huge
            black cat who was sitting on the top of one of the bookcases.
            It was really an enormous creature. Emily
            adored cats and had always felt at home with any of
            them. But she had never seen such a cat as this. What
            with its size and its insolent, gold-hued eyes, set like
            living jewels in its black velvet face, it did not seem to
            belong to the same species as nice, cuddly, respectable
            kittens at all. Mr. Dare would never have had such a
            beast about his manse. All Emily’s dread of Father Cassidy
            returned.</p>
        <p>And then in came Father Cassidy, with the friendliest
            smile in the world. Emily took him in with her level
            glance as was her habit—or gift—and never again in
            the world was she the least bit afraid of Father Cassidy.
            He was big and broad-shouldered, with brown eyes and
            brown hair; and his very face was so deeply tanned from
            his inveterate habit of going about bareheaded in merciless
            sunshine, that it was brown, too. Emily thought
            he looked just like a big nut—a big, brown, wholesome
            nut.</p>
        <p>Father Cassidy looked at her as he shook hands; Emily
            had one of her visitations of beauty just then. Excitement
            had brought a wildrose hue to her face, the sunlight<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_201">201</a></span>
            brought out the watered-silk gloss of her black hair; her
            eyes were softly dark and limpid; but it was at her ears
            Father Cassidy suddenly bent to look. Emily had a
            moment of agonized wonder if they were clean.</p>
        <p>“She’s got pointed ears,” said Father Cassidy, in a
            thrilling whisper. “Pointed ears! I <em>knew</em> she came
            straight from fairyland the minute I saw her. Sit down,
            Elf—if elves do sit—sit down and give me the latest
            news av Titania’s court.”</p>
        <p>Emily’s foot was now on her native heath. Father
            Cassidy talked her language, and he talked it in such a
            mellow, throaty voice, slurring his “ofs” ever so softly
            as became a proper Irishman. But she shook her head
            a little sadly. With the burden of her errand on her
            soul she could not play the part of ambassadress from
            Elfland.</p>
        <p>“I’m only Emily Starr of New Moon,” she said; and
            then gasped hurriedly, because there must be no deception—no
            sailing under false colours, “and I’m a Protestant.”</p>
        <p>“And a very nice little Protestant you are,” said Father
            Cassidy. “But for sure I’m a bit disappointed. I’m
            used to Protestants—the woods hereabouts being full av
            them—but it’s a hundred years since the last elf called
            on me.”</p>
        <p>Emily stared. Surely Father Cassidy wasn’t a hundred
            years old. He didn’t look more than fifty. Perhaps,
            though, Catholic priests did live longer than other
            people. She didn’t know exactly what to say so she said,
            a bit lamely,</p>
        <p>“I see you have a cat.”</p>
        <p>“Wrong.” Father Cassidy shook his head and
            groaned dismally. “A cat has me.”</p>
        <p>Emily gave up trying to understand Father Cassidy.
            He was nice but ununderstandable. She let it go at that.
            And she must get on with her errand.</p>
        <p>“You are a kind of minister, aren’t you?” she asked<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_202">202</a></span>
            timidly. She didn’t know whether Father Cassidy
            would like being called a minister.</p>
        <p>“Kind av,” he agreed amiably. “And you see ministers
            and priests can’t do their own swearing. They
            have to keep cats to do it for them. I never knew any
            cat that could sware as genteelly and effectively as the
            B’y.”</p>
        <p>“Is that what you call him?” asked Emily, looking at
            the black cat in some awe. It seemed hardly safe to discuss
            him right before his face.</p>
        <p>“That’s what he calls himself. My mother doesn’t
            like him because he steals the cream. Now, <em>I</em> don’t mind
            his doing that; no, it’s his way av licking his jaws after
            it that I can’t stand. Oh, B’y, we’ve a fairy calling on
            us. Be excited for once, I implore you—there’s a duck
            av a cat.”</p>
        <p>The B’y refused to be excited. He winked an insolent
            eye at Emily.</p>
        <p>“Have you any idea what goes on in the head av a cat,
            elf?”</p>
        <p>What queer questions Father Cassidy asked. Yet
            Emily thought she would like his questions if she were
            not so worried. Suddenly Father Cassidy leaned across
            the table and said,</p>
        <p>“Now, just what’s bothering you?”</p>
        <p>“I’m so unhappy,” said Emily piteously.</p>
        <p>“So are lots av other people. Everybody is unhappy
            by spells. But creatures who have pointed ears shouldn’t
            be unhappy. It’s only mortals who should be that.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, please—please—” Emily wondered what she
            should call him. Would it offend him if a Protestant
            called him “Father”? But she had to risk it—“please,
            Father Cassidy, I’m in such trouble and I’ve come to ask
            a <em>great favour</em> of you.”</p>
        <p>Emily told him the whole tale from beginning to end—the
            old Murray-Sullivan feud, her erstwhile friendship<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_203">203</a></span>
            with Lofty John, the Big Sweet apple, the unhappy consequence,
            and Lofty John’s threatened revenge. The
            B’y and Father Cassidy listened with equal gravity until
            she had finished. Then the B’y winked at her, but
            Father Cassidy put his long brown fingers together.</p>
        <p>“Humph,” he said.</p>
        <p>(“That’s the first time,” reflected Emily, “that I’ve
            ever heard anyone outside of a book say ‘Humph.’”)</p>
        <p>“Humph,” said Father Cassidy again. “And you
            want me to put a stop to this nefarious deed?”</p>
        <p>“If you can,” said Emily. “Oh, it would be so splendid
            if you could. Will you—will you?”</p>
        <p>Father Cassidy fitted his fingers still more carefully
            together.</p>
        <p>“I’m afraid I can hardly invoke the power av the keys
            to prevent Lofty John from disposing as he wishes av
            his own lawful property, you know, elf.”</p>
        <p>Emily didn’t understand the allusion to the keys but she
            did understand that Father Cassidy was declining to
            bring the lever of the Church to bear on Lofty John.
            There was no hope, then. She could not keep the tears
            of disappointment out of her eyes.</p>
        <p>“Oh, come now, darling, don’t cry,” implored Father
            Cassidy. “Elves never cry—they can’t. It would break
            my heart to discover you weren’t av the Green Folk.
            You may call yourself av New Moon and av any religion
            you like, but the fact remains that you belong to
            the Golden Age and the old gods. That’s why I must
            save your precious bit av greenwood for you.”</p>
        <p>Emily stared.</p>
        <p>“I think it can be done,” Father Cassidy went on. “I
            think if I go to Lofty John and have a heart-to-heart
            talk with him I can make him see reason. Lofty John
            and I are very good friends. He’s a reasonable creature,
            if you know how to take him—which means to flatter his
            vanity judiciously. I’ll put it to him, not as priest to<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_204">204</a></span>
            parishoner, but as man to man, that no decent Irishman
            carries on a feud with women and that no sensible
            person is going to destroy for nothing but a grudge those
            fine old trees that have taken half a century to grow
            and can never be replaced. Why, the man who cuts
            down such a tree except when it is really necessary should
            be hanged as high as Haman on a gallows made from
            the wood av it.”</p>
        <p>(Emily thought she would write that last sentence of
            Father Cassidy’s down in Cousin Jimmy’s blank book
            when she got home.)</p>
        <p>“But I won’t say <em>that</em> to Lofty John,” concluded Father
            Cassidy. “Yes, Emily av New Moon, I think we can
            consider it a settled thing that your bush will not be cut
            down.”</p>
        <p>Suddenly Emily felt very happy. Somehow she had
            entire confidence in Father Cassidy. She was sure he
            would twist Lofty John around his little finger.</p>
        <p>“Oh, I can never thank you enough!” she said earnestly.</p>
        <p>“That’s true, so don’t waste breath trying. And now
            tell me things. Are there any more av you? And how
            long have you been yourself?”</p>
        <p>“I’m twelve years old—I haven’t any brothers or sisters.
            And I <em>think</em> I’d better be going home.”</p>
        <p>“Not till you’ve had a bite av lunch.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, thank you, I’ve had my supper.”</p>
        <p>“Two hours ago and a two-mile walk since. Don’t
            tell me. I’m sorry I haven’t any nectar and ambrosia
            on hand—such food as elves eat—and not even a saucer
            av moonshine—but my mother makes the best plum cake
            av any woman in P. E. Island. And we keep a cream
            cow. Wait here a bit. Don’t be afraid av the B’y.
            He eats tender little Protestants sometimes, but he never
            meddles with leprechauns.”</p>
        <p>When Father Cassidy came back his mother came with
            him, carrying a tray. Emily had expected to see her big<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_205">205</a></span>
            and brown too, but she was the tiniest woman imaginable,
            with snow-white, silky hair, mild blue eyes, and
            pink cheeks.</p>
        <p>“Isn’t she the sweetest thing in the way av mothers?”
            asked Father Cassidy. “I keep her to look at. Av
            course—” Father Cassidy dropped his voice to a pig’s
            whisper—“there’s something odd about her. I’ve known
            that woman to stop right in the middle av housecleaning,
            and go off and spend an afternoon in the woods. Like
            yourself, I’m thinking she has some truck with fairies.”</p>
        <p>Mrs. Cassidy smiled, kissed Emily, said she must go
            out and finish her preserving, and trotted off.</p>
        <p>“Now you sit right down here, Elf, and be human for
            ten minutes and we’ll have a friendly snack.”</p>
        <p>Emily <em>was</em> hungry—a nice comfortable feeling she
            hadn’t experienced for a fortnight. Mrs. Cassidy’s plum
            cake was all her reverend son claimed, and the cream
            cow seemed to be no myth.</p>
        <p>“What do you think av me now?” asked Father Cassidy
            suddenly, finding Emily’s eyes fixed on him speculatively.</p>
        <p>Emily blushed. She had been wondering if she dared
            ask another favour of Father Cassidy.</p>
        <p>“I think you are awfully good,” she said.</p>
        <p>“I <em>am</em> awfully good,” agreed Father Cassidy. “I’m
            so good that I’ll do what you want me to do—for I feel
            there’s something else you want me to do.”</p>
        <p>“I’m in a scrape and I’ve been in it all summer. You
            see”—Emily was very sober—“I am a poetess.”</p>
        <p>“Holy Mike! That <em>is</em> serious. I don’t know if I can
            do much for you. How long have you been that way?”</p>
        <p>“Are you making fun of me?” asked Emily gravely.</p>
        <p>Father Cassidy swallowed something besides plum cake.</p>
        <p>“The saints forbid! It’s only that I’m rather overcome.
            To be after entertaining a lady av New Moon—and
            an elf—and a poetess all in one is a bit too much<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_206">206</a></span>
            for a humble praste like meself. Have another slice av
            cake and tell me all about it.”</p>
        <p>“It’s like this—I’m writing an epic.”</p>
        <p>Father Cassidy suddenly leaned over and gave Emily’s
            wrist a little pinch.</p>
        <p>“I just wanted to see if you were real,” he explained.
            “Yes—yes, you’re writing an epic—go on. I think I’ve
            got my second wind now.”</p>
        <p>“I began it last spring. I called it <i>The White Lady</i>
            first but now I’ve changed it to <i>The Child of the Sea</i>.
            Don’t you think that’s a better title?”</p>
        <p>“Much better.”</p>
        <p>“I’ve got three cantos done, and I can’t get any further
            because there’s something I don’t know and can’t find
            out. I’ve been so worried about it.”</p>
        <p>“What is it?”</p>
        <p>“My epic,” said Emily, diligently devouring plum
            cake, “is about a very beautiful high-born girl who was
            stolen away from her real parents when she was a baby
            and brought up in a woodcutter’s hut.”</p>
        <p>“One av of the seven original plots in the world,”
            murmured Father Cassidy.</p>
        <p>“What?”</p>
        <p>“Nothing. Just a bad habit av thinking aloud. Go
            on.”</p>
        <p>“She had a lover of high degree but his family did not
            want him to marry her because she was only a woodcutter’s
            daughter—”</p>
        <p>“Another of the seven plots—excuse me.”</p>
        <p>“—so they sent him away to the Holy land on a crusade
            and word came back that he was killed and
            then Editha—her name was Editha—went into a convent—”</p>
        <p>Emily paused for a bite of plum cake and Father Cassidy
            took up the strain.</p>
        <p>“And now her lover comes back very much alive,
            though covered with Paynim scars, and the secret av her<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_207">207</a></span>
            birth is discovered through the dying confession av the
            old nurse and the birthmark on her arm.”</p>
        <p>“How did you know?” gasped Emily in amazement.</p>
        <p>“Oh, I guessed it—I’m a good guesser. But where’s
            your bother in all this?”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know how to get her out of the convent,”
            confessed Emily. “I thought perhaps you would know
            how it could be done.”</p>
        <p>Again Father Cassidy fitted his fingers.</p>
        <p>“Let us see, now. It’s no light matter you’ve undertaken,
            young lady. How stands the case? <em>Editha</em> has
            taken the veil, not because she has a religious vocation but
            because she imagines her heart is broken. The Catholic
            Church does not release its nuns from their vows because
            they happen to think they’ve made a little mistake av that
            sort. No, no,—we must have a better reason. Is this
            Editha the sole child av her real parents?”</p>
        <p>“Yes.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, then the way is clear. If she had had any
            brothers or sisters you would have had to kill them off,
            which is a messy thing to do. Well, then, she is the sole
            daughter and heiress av a noble family who have for years
            been at deadly feud with another noble family—the family
            av the lover. Do you know what a feud is?”</p>
        <p>“Of course,” said Emily disdainfully. “And I’ve got
            all that in the poem already.”</p>
        <p>“So much the better. This feud has rent the kingdom
            in twain and can only be healed by an alliance between
            Capulet and Montague.”</p>
        <p>“Those aren’t their names.”</p>
        <p>“No matter. This, then, is a national affair, with far-reaching
            issues, therefore an appeal to the Supreme Pontiff
            is quite in order. What you want,” Father Cassidy
            nodded solemnly, “is a dispensation from Rome.”</p>
        <p>“Dispensation is a hard word to work into a poem,”
            said Emily.</p>
        <p>“Undoubtedly. But young ladies who <em>will</em> write epic<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_208">208</a></span>
            poems and who <em>will</em> lay the scenes thereof amid times and
            manners av hundreds av years ago, and <em>will</em> choose heroines
            av a religion quite unknown to them, <em>must</em> expect to
            run up against a few snags.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, I think I’ll be able to work it in,” said Emily
            cheerfully. “And I’m so much obliged to you. You
            don’t know what a relief it is to my mind. I’ll finish the
            poem right up now in a few weeks. I haven’t done a
            thing at it all summer. But then of course I’ve been
            busy. Ilse Burnley and I have been making a new
            language.”</p>
        <p>“Making a—new—excuse me. <em>Did</em> you say <em>language</em>?”</p>
        <p>“Yes.”</p>
        <p>“What’s the matter with English? Isn’t it good
            enough for you, you incomprehensible little being?”</p>
        <p>“Oh, yes. <em>That</em> isn’t why we’re making a new one.
            You see in the spring, Cousin Jimmy got a lot of French
            boys to help plant the potatoes. I had to help too, and
            Ilse came to keep me company. And it was so annoying
            to hear those boys talking French when we couldn’t understand
            a word of it. They did it just to make us mad.
            Such jabbering! So Ilse and I just made up our minds
            we’d invent a new language that <em>they</em> couldn’t understand.
            We’re getting on fine and when the potato picking time
            comes we’ll be able to talk to each other and those boys
            won’t be able to understand a word we’re saying. Oh,
            it will be great fun!”</p>
        <p>“I haven’t a doubt. But two girls who will go to all
            the trouble av inventing a new language just to get
            square with some poor little French boys—you’re beyond
            me,” said Father Cassidy, helplessly. “Goodness knows
            what you’ll be doing when you grow up. You’ll be Red
            Revolutionists. I tremble for Canada.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, it isn’t a trouble—it’s fun. And all the girls in
            school are just wild because they hear us talking in it and<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_209">209</a></span>
            can’t make it out. We can talk secrets right before
            them.”</p>
        <p>“Human nature being what it is, I can see where the
            fun comes in all right. Let’s hear a sample av your
            language.”</p>
        <p>“Nat millan O ste dolman bote ta Shrewsbury fernas
            ta poo litanos,” said Emily glibly. “That means, ‘Next
            summer I am going to Shrewsbury woods to pick strawberries.’
            I yelled that across the playground to Ilse the
            other day at recess and oh, how everybody stared.”</p>
        <p>“Staring, is it? I should say so. My own poor old
            eyes are all but dropping out av me head. Let’s hear a
            bit more av it.”</p>
        <p>“Mo tral li dead seb ad li mo trene. Mo bertral seb
            mo bertrene das sten dead e ting setra. <em>That</em> means ‘My
            father is dead and so is my mother. My grandfather
            and grandmother have been dead a long time.’ We
            haven’t invented a word for ‘dead’ yet. I think I will
            soon be able to write my poems in our language and then
            Aunt Elizabeth will not be able to read them if she finds
            them.”</p>
        <p>“Have you written any other poetry besides your
            epic?”</p>
        <p>“Oh, yes—but just short pieces—dozens of them.”</p>
        <p>“H’m. Would you be so kind as to let me hear one av
            them?”</p>
        <p>Emily was greatly flattered. And she did not mind
            letting Father Cassidy hear her precious stuff.</p>
        <p>“I’ll recite my last poem,” she said, clearing her throat
            importantly. “It’s called <i>Evening Dreams</i>.”</p>
        <p>Father Cassidy listened attentively. After the first
            verse a change came over his big brown face, and he began
            patting his fingertips together. When Emily finished
            she hung down her lashes and waited tremblingly.
            What if Father Cassidy said it was no good? No, he
            wouldn’t be so impolite—but if he bantered her as he had<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_210">210</a></span>
            done about her epic—she would know what <em>that</em> meant.</p>
        <p>Father Cassidy did not speak all at once. The prolonged
            suspense was terrible to Emily. She was afraid
            he could not praise and did not want to hurt her feelings
            by dispraise. All at once her “Evening Dreams”
            seemed trash and she wondered how she could ever have
            been silly enough to repeat it to Father Cassidy.</p>
        <p>Of course, it <em>was</em> trash. Father Cassidy knew that
            well enough. All the same, for a child like this—and
            rhyme and rhythm were flawless—and there was one line—just
            one line—“the light of faintly golden stars”—for
            the sake of that line Father Cassidy suddenly said,</p>
        <p>“Keep on,—keep on writing poetry.”</p>
        <p>“You mean?”—Emily was breathless.</p>
        <p>“I mean you’ll be able to do something by and by.
            Something—I don’t know how much—but keep on—keep
            on.”</p>
        <p>Emily was so happy she wanted to cry. It was the
            first word of commendation she had ever received except
            from her father—and a father might have too high an
            opinion of one. <em>This</em> was different. To the end of her
            struggle for recognition Emily never forgot Father Cassidy’s
            “Keep on” and the tone in which he said it.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth scolds me for writing poetry,” she
            said wistfully. “She says people will think I’m as simple
            as Cousin Jimmy.”</p>
        <p>“The path of genius never did run smooth. But have
            another piece av cake—do, just to show there’s something
            human about you.”</p>
        <p>“Ve, merry ti. O del re dolman cosey aman ri sen
            ritter. <em>That</em> means, ‘No, thank you. I must be going
            home before it gets dark.’”</p>
        <p>“I’ll drive you home.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, no, no. It’s very kind of you”—the English
            language was quite good enough for Emily now. “But
            I’d rather <em>walk</em>. It’s—it’s—such good exercise.”</p>
        <p>“Meaning,” said Father Cassidy with a twinkle in his<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_211">211</a></span>
            eye, “that we must keep it from the old lady. Good-bye,
            and may you always see a happy face in your looking-glass!”</p>
        <p>Emily was too happy to be tired on the way home.
            There seemed to be a bubble of joy in her heart—a shimmering,
            prismatic bubble. When she came to the top of
            the big hill and looked across to New Moon, her eyes
            were satisfied and loving. How beautiful it was, lying
            embowered in the twilight of the old trees; the tips of the
            loftiest spruces came out in purple silhouette against the
            northwestern sky of rose and amber; down behind it the
            Blair Water dreamed in silver; the Wind Woman had
            folded her misty bat-wings in a valley of sunset and stillness
            lay over the world like a blessing. Emily felt sure
            everything would be all right. Father Cassidy would
            manage it in some way.</p>
        <p>And he had told her to “keep on.”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xix" />CHAPTER XIX<br />
                <span>Friends Again</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">E</span>MILY listened very anxiously on Monday morning,
            but “no sound of axe, no ponderous hammer
            rang” in Lofty John’s bush. That evening on her way
            home from school, Lofty John himself overtook her in
            his buggy and for the first time since the night of the apple
            stopped and accosted her.</p>
        <p>“Will ye take a lift, Miss Emily av New Moon?” he
            said affably.</p>
        <p>Emily climbed in, feeling a little bit foolish. But
            Lofty John looked quite friendly as he clucked to his
            horse.</p>
        <p>“So you’ve clean wiled the heart out av Father Cassidy’s
            body,” he said. “‘The sweetest scrap av a girl<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_212">212</a></span>
            I’ve iver seen,’ says he to me. Sure an’ ye might lave
            the poor prastes alone.”</p>
        <p>Emily looked at Lofty John out of the corner of her
            eye. He did not seem angry.</p>
        <p>“Ye’ve put <em>me</em> in a nice tight fix av it,” he went on.
            “I’m as proud as any New Moon Murray av ye all and
            your Aunt Elizabeth said a number av things that got
            under my skin. I’ve many an old score to settle with
            her. So I thought I’d get square by cutting av the bush
            down. And you had to go and quare me wid me praste
            bekase av it and now I make no doubt I’ll not be after
            daring to cut a stick av kindling to warm me shivering
            carcase without asking lave av the Pope.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, Mr. Sullivan, are you going to leave the bush
            alone?” said Emily breathlessly.</p>
        <p>“It all rests with yourself, Miss Emily av New Moon.
            Ye can’t be after expecting a Lofty John to be too
            humble. I didn’t come by the name bekase av me makeness.”</p>
        <p>“What do you want me to do?”</p>
        <p>“First, then, I’m wanting you to let bygones be bygones
            in that matter av the apple. And be token av the
            same come over and talk to me now and then as ye did
            last summer. Sure now, and I’ve missed ye—ye and
            that spit-fire av an Ilse who’s never come aither bekase
            she thinks I mistrated you.”</p>
        <p>“I’ll come of course,” said Emily doubtfully, “if only
            Aunt Elizabeth will let me.”</p>
        <p>“Tell her if she don’t the bush’ll be cut down—ivery
            last stick av it. That’ll fetch her. And there’s wan
            more thing. Ye must ask me rale make and polite to do
            ye the favour av not cutting down the bush. If ye do it
            pretty enough sure niver a tree will I touch. But if ye
            don’t down they go, praste or no praste,” concluded
            Lofty John.</p>
        <p>Emily summoned all her wiles to her aid. She clasped<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_213">213</a></span>
            her hands, she looked up through her lashes at Lofty
            John, she smiled as slowly and seductively as she knew
            how—and Emily had considerable native knowledge of
            that sort. “Please, Mr. Lofty John,” she coaxed,
            “won’t you leave me the dear bush I love?”</p>
        <p>Lofty John swept off his crumpled old felt hat. “To
            be sure an’ I will. A proper Irishman always does what
            a lady asks him. Sure an’ it’s been the ruin av us.
            We’re at the mercy av the petticoats. If ye’d come and
            said that to me afore ye’d have had no need av your walk
            to White Cross. But mind ye keep the rest av the bargin.
            The reds are ripe and the scabs soon will be—and
            all the rats have gone to glory.”</p>
        <p>Emily flew into the New Moon kitchen like a slim
            whirlwind.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth, Lofty John isn’t going to cut down
            the bush—he told me he wouldn’t—but I have to go and
            see him sometimes—if you don’t object.”</p>
        <p>“I suppose it wouldn’t make much difference to you
            if I did,” said Aunt Elizabeth. But her voice was not
            so sharp as usual. She would not confess how much
            Emily’s announcement relieved her; but it mellowed her
            attitude considerably. “There’s a letter here for you.
            I want to know what it means.”</p>
        <p>Emily took the letter. It was the first time she had
            ever received a real letter through the mail and she tingled
            with the delight of it. It was addressed in a heavy
            black hand to “Miss Emily Starr, New Moon, Blair
            Water.” But—</p>
        <p>“You opened it!” she cried indignantly.</p>
        <p>“Of course I did. You are not going to receive letters
            I am not to see, Miss. What I want to know is—how
            comes Father Cassidy to be writing to you—and writing
            such nonsense?”</p>
        <p>“I went to see him Saturday,” confessed Emily, realizing
            that the cat was out of the bag. “And I asked him<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_214">214</a></span>
            if he couldn’t prevent Lofty John from cutting down the
            bush.”</p>
        <p>“Emily—Byrd—Starr!”</p>
        <p>“I <em>told</em> him I was a Protestant,” cried Emily. “He
            understands all about it. And he was just like anybody
            else. I like him <em>better</em> than Mr. Dare.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth did not say much more. There did
            not seem to be much she <em>could</em> say. Besides the bush
            wasn’t going to be cut down. The bringer of good news
            is forgiven much. She contented herself with glaring at
            Emily—who was too happy and excited to mind glares.
            She carried her letter off to the garret dormer and gloated
            over the stamp and the superscription a bit before she
            took out the enclosure.</p>
        <p>“Dear Pearl of Emilys,” wrote Father Cassidy. “I’ve
            seen our lofty friend and I feel sure your green outpost
            of fairyland will be saved for your moonlit revels. I
            know you <em>do</em> dance there by light o’ moon when mortals
            are snoring. I think you’ll have to go through the form
            of asking Mr. Sullivan to spare those trees, but you’ll
            find him quite reasonable. It’s all in the knowing how
            and the time of the moon. How goes the epic and the
            language? I hope you’ll have no trouble in freeing the
            <i>Child of The Sea</i> from her vows. Continue to be the
            friend of all good elves, and of
        </p>
        <p class="mb0 center">“Your admiring friend,</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>James Cassidy</em>.</p>
        <p>“P. S. The B’y sends respects. What word have
            you for ‘cat’ in your language? Sure and you can’t get
            anything cattier than ‘cat’ can you, now?”</p>
        <hr class="tb" />
        <p>Lofty John spread the story of Emily’s appeal to
            Father Cassidy far and wide, enjoying it as a good joke
            on himself. Rhoda Stuart said she always knew Emily<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_215">215</a></span>
            Starr was a bold thing and Miss Brownell said she would
            be surprised at <em>nothing</em> Emily Starr would do, and Dr.
            Burnley called her a Little Devil more admiringly than
            ever, and Perry said she had pluck and Teddy took credit
            for suggesting it, and Aunt Elizabeth endured, and Aunt
            Laura thought it might have been worse. But Cousin
            Jimmy made Emily feel very happy.</p>
        <p>“It would have spoiled the garden and broken my
            heart, Emily,” he told her. “You’re a little darling girl
            to have prevented it.”</p>
        <p>One day a month later, when Aunt Elizabeth had taken
            Emily to Shrewsbury to fit her out with a winter coat,
            they met Father Cassidy in a store. Aunt Elizabeth
            bowed with great stateliness, but Emily put out a slender
            paw.</p>
        <p>“What about the dispensation from Rome?” whispered
            Father Cassidy.</p>
        <p>One Emily was quite horrified lest Aunt Elizabeth
            should overhear and think she was having sly dealings
            with the Pope, such as no good Presbyterian half-Murray
            of New Moon should have. The other Emily thrilled
            to her toes with the dramatic delight of a secret understanding
            of mystery and intrigue. She nodded gravely,
            her eyes eloquent with satisfaction.</p>
        <p>“I got it without any trouble,” she whispered back.</p>
        <p>“Fine,” said Father Cassidy. “I wish you good luck,
            and I wish it hard. Good-bye.”</p>
        <p>“Farewell,” said Emily, thinking it a word more in
            keeping with dark secrets than good-bye. She tasted
            the flavour of that half-stolen interview all the way home,
            and felt quite as if she were living in an epic herself.
            She did not see Father Cassidy again for years—he was
            soon afterwards removed to another parish; but she always
            thought of him as a very agreeable and understanding
            person.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_216">216</a></span>
        </div>
        <h2><a id="xx" />CHAPTER XX<br />
            <span>By Aerial Post</span>
        </h2>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap"><span class="dropcap2">“</span>D</span>EAREST FATHER:
            “My heart is very sore to night. Mike died this
            morning. Cousin Jimmy says he must have been poisoned.
            Oh, Father dear, I felt so bad. He was such a
            lovely cat. I cried and cried and cried. Aunt Elizabeth
            was disgusted. She said, “You did not make half so
            much fuss when your father died.” What a crewel
            speech. Aunt Laura was nicer but when she said,
            “Don’t cry dear. I will get you another kitten,” I saw
            she didn’t understand either. I don’t want another kitten.
            If I had <em>millions</em> of kittens they wouldn’t make up
            for Mike.</p>
        <p>“Ilse and I buried him in Lofty John’s bush. I am
            so thankful the ground wasn’t frozen yet. Aunt Laura
            gave me a shoe box for a coffin, and some pink tissue
            paper to wrap his poor little body in. And we put a
            stone over the grave and I said “Blessed are the dead who
            die in the Lord.” When I told Aunt Laura about it she
            was horrified and said, “Oh, Emily, that was a dreadful
            thing. You should not have said that over a cat.”
            And Cousin Jimmy said, “Don’t you think, Laura, that
            an innocent little dum creature has a share in God? Emily
            loved him and all love is part of God.” And Aunt
            Laura said, “Maybe you are right, Jimmy. But I am
            thankful Elizabeth did not hear her.”</p>
        <p>“Cousin Jimmy may not be all there, but what is there
            is very nice.</p>
        <p>“But oh, Father, I am so lonesome for Mike tonight.
            Last night he was here playing with me, so cunning and
            pretty and <em>smee</em>, and now he is cold and dead in Lofty
            John’s bush.</p>
        <p class="right2"><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_217">217</a></span>
            “<span class="smcap">December 18.</span></p>
        <p class="mb0 noi">“<span class="smcap">Dear Father:</span></p>
        <p class="mt0">“I am here in the garret. The Wind Woman is very
            sorry about something tonight. She is sying so sadly
            around the window. And yet the first time I heard her
            tonight the flash came—I felt as if I had just seen something
            that happened long, long ago—something so lovely
            that it hurt me.</p>
        <p>“Cousin Jimmy says there will be a snow storm tonight.
            I am glad. I like to hear a storm at night. It’s
            so cozy to snuggle down among the blankets and feel it
            can’t get at you. Only when I snuggle Aunt Elizabeth
            says I skwirm. The idea of any one not knowing the difference
            between snuggling and skwirming.</p>
        <p>“I am glad we will have snow for Christmas. The
            Murray dinner is to be at New Moon this year. It is our
            turn. Last year it was at Uncle Oliver’s but Cousin
            Jimmy had grippe and couldn’t go so I stayed home with
            him. I will be right in the thick of it this year and it exites
            me. I will write you all about it after it is over,
            dearest.</p>
        <p>“I want to tell you something, Father. I am ashamed
            of it, but I think I’ll feel better if I tell you all about it.
            Last Saturday Ella Lee had a birthday party and I was
            invited. Aunt Elizabeth let me put on my new blue
            cashmere dress. It is a very pretty dress. Aunt Elizabeth
            wanted to get a dark brown but Aunt Laura insisted
            on blue. I looked at myself in my glass and I
            remembered that Ilse had told me her father told her I
            would be handsome if I had more colour. So I pinched
            my cheeks to make them red. I looked ever so much
            nicer but it didn’t last. Then I took an old red velvet
            flower that had once been in Aunt Laura’s bonnet and
            wet it and then rubbed the red on my cheeks. I went to
            the party and the girls all <em>looked</em> at me but nobody said
            anything, only Rhoda Stuart giggled and giggled. I
            meant to come home and wash the red off before Aunt<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_218">218</a></span>
            Elizabeth saw me. But she took a notion to call for me
            on her way home from the store. She did not say anything
            there but when we got home she said, “What have
            you been doing to your face, Emily?” I told her and I expected
            an awful scolding, but all she said was, “Don’t you
            know that you have made yourself <em>cheap</em>?” I did know it,
            too. I had felt that all along although I couldn’t think of
            the right word for it before. “I will never do such a thing
            again, Aunt Elizabeth,” I said. “You’d better not,” she
            said. “Go and wash your face this instant.” I did and I
            was not half so pretty but I felt ever so much better.
            Strange to relate, dear Father, I heard Aunt Elizabeth
            laughing about it in the pantry to Aunt Laura afterwards.
            You never can tell what will make Aunt Elizabeth laugh.
            I am sure it was ever so much funnier when Saucy
            Sal followed me to prayer meeting last Wednesday night,
            but Aunt Elizabeth never laughed a bit then. I don’t
            often go to prayer meeting but Aunt Laura couldn’t
            go that night so Aunt Elizabeth took me because she
            doesn’t like to go alone. I didn’t know Sal was following
            us till just as we got to the church I saw her. I
            shooed her away but after we went in I suppose Sal
            sneaked in when someone opened the door and got upstairs
            into the galery. And just as soon as Mr. Dare began
            to pray Sal began to yowl. It sounded awful up in
            that big empty galery. I felt so gilty and miserable. I
            did not need to paint my face. It was just burning red
            and Aunt Elizabeth’s eyes glittered feendishly. Mr.
            Dare prayed a long time. He is deaf, so he did not hear
            Sal any more than when he sat on her. But everyone
            else did and the boys giggled. After the prayer Mr.
            Morris went up to the galery and chased Sal out. We
            could hear her skrambling over the seats and Mr. Morris
            after her. I was wild for fear he’d hurt her. I ment
            to spank her myself with a shingle next day but I did
            not want her to be kicked. After a long time he got her
            out of the galery and she tore down the stairs and into the<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_219">219</a></span>
            church, up one isle and down the other two or three times
            as fast as she could go and Mr. Morris after her with a
            broom. It is awfully funny to think of it now but I
            did not think it so funny at the time I was so ashamed
            and so afraid Sal would be hurt.</p>
        <p>“Mr. Morris chased her out at last. When he sat
            down I made a face at him behind my hymn book.
            Coming home Aunt Elizabeth said, “I hope you have
            disgraced us enough tonight, Emily Starr. I shall never
            take you to prayer meeting again.” I am sorry I disgraced
            the Murrays but I don’t see how I was to blame
            and anyway I don’t like prayer meeting because it is dull.</p>
        <p>“But it wasn’t dull that night, dear Father.</p>
        <p>“Do you notice how my spelling is improved? I have
            thought of such a good plan. I write my letter first and
            then I look up all the words I’m not sure of and correct
            them. Sometimes though I think a word is all right
            when it isn’t.</p>
        <p>“Ilse and I have given up our language. We fought
            over the verbs. Ilse didn’t want to have any tenses for
            the verbs. She just wanted to have a different word altogether
            for every tense. I said if I was going to make
            a language it was going to be a proper one and Ilse got
            mad and said she had enough bother with grammer in
            English and I could go and make my old language by myself.
            But that is no fun so I let it go too. I was sorry
            because it was very interesting and it was such fun to
            puzzle the other girls in school. We weren’t able to get
            square with the French boys after all for Ilse had sore
            throat all through potato picking time and couldn’t come
            over. It seems to me that life is full of disappointments.</p>
        <p>“We had examinations in school this week. I did
            pretty well in all except arithmetic. Miss Brownell explained
            something about the questions but I was busy
            composing a story in my mind and did not hear her so
            I got poor marks. The story is called <i>Madge MacPherson’s
                Secret</i>. I am going to buy four sheets of foolscap<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_220">220</a></span>
            with my egg money and sew them into a book and write
            the story in it. I can do what I like with my egg money.
            I think maybe I’ll write novels when I grow up as well
            as poetry. But Aunt Elizabeth won’t let me read any
            novels so how can I find out how to write them? Another
            thing that worries me, if I do grow up and write
            a wonderful poem, perhaps people won’t see how wonderful
            it is.</p>
        <p>“Cousin Jimmy says that a man in Priest Pond says
            the end of the world is coming soon. I hope it won’t
            come till I’ve seen everything in it.</p>
        <p>“Poor Elder MacKay has the mumps.</p>
        <p>“I was over sleeping with Ilse the other night because
            her father was away. Ilse says her prayers now and she
            said she’d bet me anything she could pray longer than
            me. I said she couldn’t and I prayed ever so long about
            everything I could think of and when I couldn’t think of
            anything more I thought at first I’d begin over again.
            Then I thought, “No, that would not be honerable. A
            Starr must be honerable.” So I got up and said “You
            win” and Ilse never answered. I went around the bed
            and there she was asleep on her knees. When I woke her
            up she said we’d have to call the bet off because she could
            have gone on praying for ever so long if she hadn’t fell
            asleep.</p>
        <p>“After we got into bed I told her a lot of things I
            wished afterwards I hadn’t. Secrets.</p>
        <p>“The other day in history class Miss Brownell read that
            Sir Walter Raleigh had to lie in the Tower for fourteen
            years. Perry said “Wouldn’t they let him get up sometimes?”
            Then Miss Brownell punished him for impertinence,
            but Perry was in earnest. Ilse was mad at Miss
            Brownell for whipping Perry and mad at Perry for asking
            such a fool question as if he didn’t know anything.
            But Perry says he is going to write a history book some
            day that won’t have such puzzling things in it.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_221">221</a></span></p>
        <p>“I am finishing the Disappointed House in my mind.
            I’m furnishing the rooms like flowers. I’ll have a rose
            room all pink and a lily room all white and silver and a
            pansy room, blue and gold. I wish the Disappointed
            House could have a Christmas. It never has any Christmasses.</p>
        <p>“Oh, Father, I’ve just thought of something nice.
            When I grow up and write a great novel and make lots
            of money, I will buy the Disappointed House and finish
            it. Then it won’t be Disappointed any more.</p>
        <p>“Ilse’s Sunday School teacher, Miss Willeson, gave her
            a Bible for learning 200 verses. But when she took it
            home her father laid it on the floor and kicked it out in
            the yard. Mrs. Simms says a judgment will come on
            him but nothing has happened yet. The poor man is
            warped. That is why he did such a wicked thing.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Laura took me to old Mrs. Mason’s funeral last
            Wednesday. I like funerals. They are so dramatic.</p>
        <p>“My pig died last week. It was a <em>great finanshul loss</em>
            to me. Aunt Elizabeth says Cousin Jimmy fed it too
            well. I suppose I should not have called it after Lofty
            John.</p>
        <p>“We have maps to draw in school now. Rhoda Stuart
            always gets the most marks. Miss Brownell doesn’t
            know that Rhoda just puts the map up against a window
            pane and the paper over it and copies it off. I like drawing
            maps. Norway and Sweden look like a tiger with
            mountains for stripes and Ireland looks like a little dog
            with its back turned on England, and its paws held
            up against its breast, and Africa looks like a big pork
            ham. Australia is a lovely map to draw.</p>
        <p>“Ilse is getting on real well in school now. She says
            she isn’t going to have me beating her. She can learn
            like the dickins, as Perry says, when she tries, and she has
            won the silver metal for Queen’s County. The W.C.T.U.
            in Charlottetown gave it for the best reciter. They had<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_222">222</a></span>
            the contest in Shrewsbury and Aunt Laura took Ilse because
            Dr. Burnley wouldn’t and Ilse won it. Aunt Laura
            told Dr. Burnley when he was here one day that he ought
            to give Ilse a good education. He said “I’m not going
            to waste money educating any she-thing.” And he looked
            black as a thunder cloud. Oh, I wish Dr. Burnley would
            love Ilse. I’m so glad <em>you</em> loved <em>me</em>, Father.</p>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">Dec. 22.</span></p>
        <p>“Dear Father: We had our school examination today.
            It was a great occasion. Almost everybody was there
            except Dr. Burnley and Aunt Elizabeth. All the girls
            wore their best dresses but me. I knew Ilse had nothing
            to wear but her shabby old last winter’s plaid that is too
            short for her, so to keep her from feeling bad, I put on
            my old brown dress, too. Aunt Elizabeth did not want
            to let me do it at first because New Moon Murrays should
            be well dressed but when I explained about Ilse she
            looked at Aunt Laura and then said I might.</p>
        <p>“Rhoda Stuart made fun of Ilse and me but I heaped
            coals of fire on her head. (That is what is called a figure
            of speech.) She got stuck in her recitation. She had
            left the book home and nobody else knew the piece but me.
            At first I looked at her triumphantly. But then a queer
            feeling came into me and I thought “What would I feel
            like if I was stuck before a big crowd of people like this?
            And besides the honour of the school is at stake,” so I
            whispered it to her because I was quite close. She got
            through the rest all right. The strange thing is, dear
            Father, that now I don’t feel any more as if I hated her.
            I feel quite kindly to her and it is much nicer. It is uncomfortable
            to hate people.</p>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">Dec. 28.</span></p>
        <p class="mt0 noi">“<span class="smcap">Dear Father:</span></p>
        <p class="mt0">“Christmas is over. It was pretty nice. I never saw
            so many good things cooked all at once. Uncle Wallace<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_223">223</a></span>
            and Aunt Eva and Uncle Oliver and Aunt Addie and Aunt
            Ruth were here. Uncle Oliver didn’t bring any of his
            children and I was much disappointed. We had Dr.
            Burnley and Ilse too. Everyone was dressed up. Aunt
            Elizabeth wore her black satin dress with a pointed lace
            collar and cap. She looked quite handsome and I was
            proud of her. You like your relations to look well even
            if you don’t like <em>them</em>. Aunt Laura wore her brown silk
            and Aunt Ruth had on a grey dress. Aunt Eva was <em>very</em>
            elegant. Her dress had a train. But it smelled of moth
            balls.</p>
        <p>“I had on my blue cashmere and wore my hair tied
            with blue ribbons, and Aunt Laura let me wear mother’s
            blue silk sash with the pink daisies on it that she had when
            she was a little girl at New Moon. Aunt Ruth sniffed
            when she saw me. She said, “You have grown a good
            deal, Em’ly. I hope you are a better girl.”</p>
        <p>“But she <em>didn’t</em> hope it (really). I saw that quite
            plain. Then she told me my bootlace was untyed.</p>
        <p>“She looks better,” said Uncle Oliver. “I wouldn’t
            wonder if she grew up into a strong, healthy girl after
            all.”</p>
        <p>“Aunt Eva sighed and shook her head. Uncle Wallace
            didn’t say anything but shook hands with me. His hand
            was as cold as a fish. When we went out to the sitting
            room for dinner I stepped on Aunt Eva’s train and I
            could hear some stitches rip somewhere. Aunt Eva
            pushed me away and Aunt Ruth said, “What a very
            awkward child you are, Emily.” I stepped behind Aunt
            Ruth and stuck out my tongue at her. Uncle Oliver
            makes a noise eating his soup. We had all the good silver
            spoons out. Cousin Jimmy carved the turkeys and he
            gave me two slices of the breast because he knows I like
            the white meat best. Aunt Ruth said “When I was a
            little girl the wing was good enough for me,” and Cousin
            Jimmy put <em>another</em> white slice on my plate. Aunt Ruth
            didn’t say anything more then till the carving was done,<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_224">224</a></span>
            and then she said, “I saw your school teacher in Shrewsbury
            last Saturday, Em’ly, and she did not give me a very
            good account of you. If you were <em>my</em> daughter I would
            expect a different report.”</p>
        <p>“I am very glad I am not your daughter,” I said in my
            mind. I didn’t say it out loud of course but Aunt Ruth
            said, “Please do not look so sulky when I speak to you,
            Em’ly.” And Uncle Wallace said, “It is a pity she has
            such an unattractive expression.”</p>
        <p>“<em>You</em> are conceited and domineering and stingy,” I
            said, still in my mind. “I heard Dr. Burnley say you
            were.”</p>
        <p>“I see there is an ink-stain on her finger,” said
            Aunt Ruth. (I had been writing a poem before dinner.)</p>
        <p>“And then a most surprising thing happened. Relations
            are always surprising you. Aunt Elizabeth spoke
            up and said, “<em>I do wish, Ruth, that you and Wallace would
                leave that child alone.</em>” I could hardly believe my ears.
            Aunt Ruth looked annoyed but she <em>did</em> leave me alone
            after that and only sniffed when Cousin Jimmy slipped
            a bit more white meat on my plate.</p>
        <p>“After that the dinner was nice. And when they got
            as far as the pudding they all began to talk and it was
            splendid to listen to. They told stories and jokes about
            the Murrays. Even Uncle Wallace laughed and Aunt
            Ruth told some things about Great-Aunt Nancy. They
            were sarcastic but they were interesting. Aunt Elizabeth
            opened Grandfather Murray’s desk and took out an old
            poem that had been written to Aunt Nancy <em>by a lover</em>
            when she was young and Uncle Oliver read it. Great-Aunt
            Nancy must have been very beautiful. I wonder
            if anyone will ever write a poem to me. If I could have
            a bang somebody might. I said, “Was Great Aunt
            Nancy really as pretty as that?” and Uncle Oliver said,
            “They say she was 70 years ago” and Uncle Wallace said,<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_225">225</a></span>
            “She hangs on well—she’ll see the century mark yet,”
            and Uncle Oliver said, “Oh, she’s got so in the habit of
            living she’ll never die.”</p>
        <p>“Dr. Burnley told a story I didn’t understand. Uncle
            Wallace hawhawed right out and Uncle Oliver put his
            napkin up to his face. Aunt Addie and Aunt Eva looked
            at each other sidewise and then at their plates and smiled
            a little bit. Aunt Ruth seemed offended and Aunt Elizabeth
            looked <em>coldly</em> at Dr. Burnley and said, “I think you
            forget that there are children present.” Dr. Burnley said,
            “I beg your pardon, Elizabeth,” <em>very</em> politely. He can
            speak with a <em>grand air</em> when he likes. He is very handsome
            when he is dressed up and shaved. Ilse says she is
            proud of him even if he hates her.</p>
        <p>“After dinner was over the presents were given. That
            is a Murray tradishun. We never have stockings or trees
            but a big bran pie is passed all around with the presents
            buried in it and ribbons hanging out with names on them.
            It was fun. My relations all gave me useful presents
            except Aunt Laura. She gave me a bottle of perfume.
            I love it. I love nice smells. Aunt Elizabeth does not
            approve of perfumes. She gave me a new apron but I
            am thankful to say not a baby one. Aunt Ruth gave me
            a New Testament and said “Em’ly, I hope you will read a
            portion of that every day until you have read it through,”
            and I said, “Why, Aunt Ruth, I’ve read the whole New
            Testament a dozen times (and so I have) I <em>love</em> Revelations.”
            (And I <em>do</em>. When I read the verse “and the
            twelve gates were twelve pearls” I just <em>saw</em> them and the
            flash came.) “The Bible is not to be read as a story
            book,” Aunt Ruth said coldly. Uncle Wallace and Aunt
            Eva gave me a pair of black mits and Uncle Oliver and
            Aunt Addie gave me a whole dollar in nice new silver
            dimes and Cousin Jimmy gave me a hair ribbon. Perry
            had left a silk bookmark for me. He had to go home
            to spend Christmas day with his Aunt Tom at Stovepipe<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_226">226</a></span>
            Town but I saved a lot of nuts and raisins for him. I
            gave him and Teddy handkerchiefs (Teddy’s was a <em>little</em>
            the nicest) and I gave Ilse a hair ribbon. I bought them
            myself out of my egg money. (I will not have any more
            egg money for a long time because my hen has stopped
            laying.) Everybody was happy and once Uncle Wallace
            smiled right at me. I did not think him so ugly when
            he smiled.</p>
        <p>“After dinner Ilse and I played games in the kitchen
            and Cousin Jimmy helped us make taffy. We had a big
            supper but nobody could eat much because they had had
            such a dinner. Aunt Eva’s head ached and Aunt Ruth
            said she didn’t see why Elizabeth made the sausages so
            rich. But the rest were good humored and Aunt Laura
            kept things pleasant. She is good at making things
            pleasant. And after it was all over Uncle Wallace said
            (this is another Murray tradishun) “Let us think for a
            few moments of those who have gone before.” I liked
            the way he said it—very solemnly and kind. It was one
            of the times when I am glad the blood of the Murrays
            flows in my vains. And I thought of <em>you</em>, darling
            Father, and Mother and poor little Mike and Great-great-Grandmother
            Murray, and of my old account book that
            Aunt Elizabeth burned, because it seemed just like a person
            to me. And then we all joined hands and sung
            “For Auld Lang Syne” before they went home. I didn’t
            feel like a stranger among the Murrays any more. Aunt
            Laura and I stood out on the porch to watch them go.
            Aunt Laura put her arm around me and said, “Your
            mother and I used to stand like this long ago, Emily, to
            watch the Christmas guests go away.” The snow
            creaked and the bells rang back through the trees and the
            frost on the pighouse roof sparkled in the moonlight.
            And it was all so lovely (the bells and the frost and the
            big shining white night) that <em>the flash</em> came and that
            was best of all.”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_227">227</a></span>
        </div>
        <h2><a id="xxi" />CHAPTER XXI<br />
            <span>“Romantic but not Comfortable”</span>
        </h2>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">A</span> CERTAIN thing happened at New Moon because
            Teddy Kent paid Ilse Burnley a compliment one
            day and Emily Starr didn’t altogether like it. Empires
            have been overturned for the same reason.</p>
        <p>Teddy was skating on Blair Water and taking Ilse and
            Emily out in turns for “slides.” Neither Ilse nor Emily
            had skates. Nobody was sufficiently interested in Ilse to
            buy skates for her, and as for Emily, Aunt Elizabeth
            did not approve of girls skating. New Moon girls had
            never skated. Aunt Laura had a revolutionary idea that
            skating would be good exercise for Emily and would,
            moreover, prevent her from wearing out the soles of her
            boots sliding. But neither of these arguments was sufficient
            to convince Aunt Elizabeth, in spite of the thrifty
            streak that came to her from the Burnleys. The latter,
            however, caused her to issue an edict that Emily was not
            to “slide.” Emily took this very hardly. She moped
            about in a woe-begone fashion and she wrote to her
            father, “I <em>hate</em> Aunt Elizabeth. She is so unjust. She
            never plays fair.” But one day Dr. Burnley stuck his
            head in at the door of the New Moon kitchen and said
            gruffly, “What’s this I hear about you not letting Emily
            slide, Elizabeth?”</p>
        <p>“She wears out the soles of her boots,” said Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“Boots be—” the doctor remembered that ladies were
            present just in time. “Let the creature slide all she
            wants to. She ought to be in the open air all the time.
            She ought”—the doctor stared at Elizabeth ferociously—“she
            ought to sleep out of doors.”</p>
        <p>Elizabeth trembled lest the doctor should go on to insist<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_228">228</a></span>
            on this unheard-of proceeding. She knew he had
            absurd ideas about the proper treatment of consumptives
            and those who might become such. She was glad to appease
            him by letting Emily stay out-of-doors in daytime
            and do what seemed good to her, if only he would say
            no more about staying out all night too.</p>
        <p>“He is much more concerned about Emily than he is
            about his own child,” she said bitterly to Laura.</p>
        <p>“Ilse is too healthy,” said Aunt Laura with a smile.
            “If she were a delicate child Allan might forgive her for—for
            being her mother’s daughter.”</p>
        <p>“S—s—h,” said Aunt Elizabeth. But she “s—s—s—h’d”
            too late. Emily, coming into the kitchen, had
            heard Aunt Laura and puzzled over what she had said
            all day in school. Why had Ilse to be forgiven for being
            her mother’s daughter? Everybody was her mother’s
            daughter, wasn’t she? Wherein did the crime consist?
            Emily worried over it so much that she was inattentive
            to her lessons and Miss Brownell raked her fore and aft
            with sarcasm.</p>
        <p>It is time we got back to Blair Water where Teddy
            was just bringing Emily in from a glorious spin clear
            round the great circle of ice. Ilse was waiting for her
            turn, on the bank. Her golden cloud of hair aureoled
            her face and fell in a shimmering wave over her forehead
            under the faded, little red tam she wore. Ilse’s
            clothes were always faded. The stinging kiss of the
            wind had crimsoned her cheeks and her eyes were glowing
            like amber pools with fire in their hearts. Teddy’s
            artistic perception saw her beauty and rejoiced in it.</p>
        <p>“Isn’t Ilse handsome?” he said.</p>
        <p>Emily was not jealous. It never hurt her to hear Ilse
            praised. But somehow she did not like this. Teddy
            was looking at Ilse altogether <em>too</em> admiringly. It was
            all, Emily believed, due to that shimmering fringe on
            Ilse’s white brows.</p>
        <p>“If <em>I</em> had a bang Teddy might think me handsome<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_229">229</a></span>
            too,” she thought resentfully. “Of course, black hair
            isn’t as pretty as gold. But my forehead is too high—everybody
            says so. And I <em>did</em> look nice in Teddy’s picture
            because he drew some curls over it.”</p>
        <p>The matter rankled. Emily thought of it as she went
            home over the sheen of the crusted snow-field slanting
            to the light of the winter sunset, and she could not eat
            her supper because she did not have a bang. All her long
            hidden yearning for a bang seemed to come to a head at
            once. She knew there was no use in coaxing Aunt
            Elizabeth for one. But when she was getting ready for
            bed that night she stood on a chair so that she could see
            little Emily-in-the-glass, then lifted the curling ends of
            her long braid and laid them over her forehead. The
            effect, in Emily’s eyes at least, was very alluring. She
            suddenly thought—what if she cut a bang herself? It
            would take only a minute. And once done what could
            Aunt Elizabeth do? She would be very angry and
            doubtless inflict some kind of punishment. But the bang
            would be there—at least until it grew out long.</p>
        <p>Emily, her lips set, went for the scissors. She unbraided
            her hair and parted the front tresses. Snip—snip—went
            the scissors. Glistening locks fell at her
            feet. In a minute Emily had her long-desired bang.
            Straight across her brows fell the lustrous, softly curving
            fringe. It changed the whole character of her face.
            It made it arch, provocative, elusive. For one brief
            moment Emily gazed at her reflection in triumph.</p>
        <p>And then—sheer terror seized her. Oh, what had she
            done? How angry Aunt Elizabeth would be! Conscience
            suddenly awoke and added its pang also. She
            had been wicked. It was wicked to cut a bang when
            Aunt Elizabeth had forbidden it. Aunt Elizabeth had
            given her a home at New Moon—hadn’t Rhoda Stuart
            that very day in school twitted her again with “living
            on charity”? And she was repaying her by disobedience
            and ingratitude. A Starr should not have done that.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_230">230</a></span>
            In a panic of fear and remorse Emily snatched the scissors
            and cut the bang off—cut it close against the hair
            line. Worse and worse! Emily beheld the result in
            dismay. Any one could see that a bang <em>had</em> been cut, so
            Aunt Elizabeth’s anger was still to face. And she had
            made a terrible fright of herself. Emily burst into
            tears, snatched up the fallen locks and crammed them
            into the waste-basket, blew out her candle and sprang
            into bed, just as Aunt Elizabeth came in.</p>
        <p>Emily burrowed face downward in the pillows, and
            pretended to be asleep. She was afraid Aunt Elizabeth
            would ask her some question and insist on her looking
            up while she answered it. That was a Murray tradition—you
            looked people in the face when you spoke to them.
            But Aunt Elizabeth undressed in silence and came to bed.
            The room was in darkness—thick darkness. Emily
            sighed and turned over. There was a hot gin-jar in the
            bed, she knew, and her feet were cold. But she did not
            think she ought to have the privilege of the gin-jar. She
            was too wicked—too ungrateful.</p>
        <p>“<em>Do</em> stop squirming,” said Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>Emily squirmed no more—physically at least. Mentally
            she continued to squirm. She could not sleep.
            Her feet or her conscience—or both—kept her awake.
            And fear, also. She dreaded the morning. Aunt Elizabeth
            would see then what had happened. If it were only
            over—if the revelation were only over. Emily forgot
            and squirmed.</p>
        <p>“What makes you so restless tonight?” demanded
            Aunt Elizabeth, in high displeasure. “Are you taking
            a cold?”</p>
        <p>“No, ma’am.”</p>
        <p>“Then go to sleep. I can’t bear such wriggling. One
            might as well have an eel in bed—O—W!”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth, in squirming a bit herself, had put
            her own foot against Emily’s icy ones.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_231">231</a></span></p>
        <p>“Goodness, child, your feet are like snow. Here, put
            them on the gin-jar.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth pushed the gin-jar over against Emily’s
            feet. How lovely and warm and comforting it was!</p>
        <p>Emily worked her toes against it like a cat. But she
            suddenly knew she could not wait for morning.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth, I’ve got something to confess.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth was tired and sleepy and did not want
            confessions just then. In no very gracious tone she
            said,</p>
        <p>“What have you been doing?”</p>
        <p>“I—I cut a bang, Aunt Elizabeth.”</p>
        <p>“A bang?”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth sat up in bed.</p>
        <p>“But I cut it off again,” cried Emily hurriedly.
            “Right off—close to my head.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth got out of bed, lit a candle, and looked
            Emily over.</p>
        <p>“Well you <em>have</em> made a sight of yourself,” she said
            grimly. “I never saw any one as ugly as you are this
            minute. And you have behaved in a most underhanded
            fashion.”</p>
        <p>This was one of the times Emily felt compelled to
            agree with Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“I’m sorry,” she said, lifting pleading eyes.</p>
        <p>“You will eat your supper in the pantry for a week,”
            said Aunt Elizabeth. “And you will not go to Uncle
            Oliver’s next week when I go. I had promised to take
            you. But I shall take no one who looks as you do anywhere
            with me.”</p>
        <p>This was hard. Emily had looked forward to that
            visit to Uncle Oliver’s. But on the whole she was relieved.
            The worst was over and her feet were getting
            warm. But there was one thing yet. She might as well
            unburden her heart completely while she was at it.</p>
        <p>“There’s another thing I feel I ought to tell you.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_232">232</a></span></p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth got into bed again with a grunt. Emily
            took it for permission.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth, you remember that book I found in
            Dr. Burnley’s bookcase and brought home and asked you
            if I could read it? It was called ‘The History of Henry
            Esmond.’ You looked at it and said you had no objections
            to my reading history. So I read it. But, Aunt
            Elizabeth, it wasn’t history—it was a novel. And I <em>knew
                it when I brought it home</em>.”</p>
        <p>“You know that I have forbidden you to read novels,
            Emily Starr. They are wicked books and have ruined
            many souls.”</p>
        <p>“It was very dull,” pleaded Emily, as if dullness and
            wickedness were quite incompatible. “And it made me
            feel unhappy. Everybody seemed to be in love with the
            wrong person. I have made up my mind, Aunt Elizabeth,
            that I will never fall in love. It makes too much
            trouble.”</p>
        <p>“Don’t talk of things you can’t understand, and that
            are not fit for children to think about. This is the result
            of reading novels. I shall tell Dr. Burnley to lock his
            bookcase up.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, don’t do that, Aunt Elizabeth,” exclaimed Emily.
            “There are no more novels in it. But I’m reading such
            an interesting book over there. It tells about everything
            that’s inside of you. I’ve got as far along as the liver and
            its diseases. The pictures are so interesting. Please
            let me finish it.”</p>
        <p>This was worse than novels. Aunt Elizabeth was
            truly horrified. Things that were inside of you were not
            to be read about.</p>
        <p>“Have you no shame, Emily Starr? If you have not
            I am ashamed for you. Little girls do not read books
            like that.”</p>
        <p>“But, Aunt Elizabeth, why not? I <em>have</em> a liver,
            haven’t I—and heart and lungs—and stomach—and—”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_233">233</a></span></p>
        <p>“That will do, Emily. Not another word.”</p>
        <p>Emily went to sleep unhappily. She wished she had
            never said a word about ‘Esmond.’ And she knew she
            would never have a chance to finish that other fascinating
            book. Nor had she. Dr. Burnley’s bookcase was
            locked thereafter and the doctor gruffly ordered her and
            Ilse to keep out of his office. He was in a very bad
            humour about it for he had words with Elizabeth Murray
            over the matter.</p>
        <p>Emily was not allowed to forget her bang. She was
            twitted and teased in school about it and Aunt Elizabeth
            looked at it whenever she looked at Emily and the contempt
            in her eyes burned Emily like a flame. Nevertheless,
            as the mistreated hair grew out and began to curl in
            soft little ringlets, Emily found consolation. The bang
            was tacitly permitted, and she felt that her looks were
            greatly improved thereby. Of course, as soon as it grew
            long enough she knew Aunt Elizabeth would make her
            brush it back. But for the time being she took comfort
            in her added beauty.</p>
        <p>The bang was just about at its best when the letter
            came from Great-Aunt Nancy.</p>
        <p>It was written to Aunt Laura—Great-Aunt Nancy and
            Aunt Elizabeth were not over-fond of each other—and
            in it Great-Aunt Nancy said, “If you have a photograph
            of that child Emily send it along. I don’t want to see
            <em>her</em>; she’s stupid—I know she’s stupid. But I want to
            see what Juliet’s child looks like. Also the child of that
            fascinating young man, Douglas Starr. He <em>was</em> fascinating.
            What fools you all were to make such a fuss
            about Juliet running away with him. If you and Elizabeth
            had <em>both</em> run away with somebody in your running
            days it would have been better for you.”
        </p>
        <p>This letter was not shown to Emily. Aunt Elizabeth
            and Aunt Laura had a long secret consultation and
            then Emily was told that she was to be taken to Shrewsbury<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_234">234</a></span>
            to have her picture taken for Aunt Nancy. Emily
            was much excited over this. She was dressed in her
            blue cashmere and Aunt Laura put a point lace collar on
            it and hung her Venetian beads over it. And new buttoned
            boots were got for the occasion.</p>
        <p>“I’m so glad this has happened while I still have
            my bang,” thought Emily happily.</p>
        <p>But in the photographer’s dressing-room, Aunt Elizabeth
            grimly proceeded to brush back her bang and pin it
            with hairpins.</p>
        <p>“Oh, please, Aunt Elizabeth, let me have it down,”
            Emily begged. “Just for the picture. After this I’ll
            brush it back.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth was inexorable. The bang was
            brushed back and the photograph taken. When Aunt
            Elizabeth saw the finished result she was satisfied.</p>
        <p>“She looks sulky; but she is neat; and there is a resemblance
            to the Murrays I never noticed before,” she
            told Aunt Laura. “That will please Aunt Nancy. She
            is very clannish under all her oddness.”</p>
        <p>Emily would have liked to throw every one of the
            photographs in the fire. She hated them. They made
            her look hideous. Her face seemed to be <em>all</em> forehead.
            If they sent Aunt Nancy that Aunt Nancy would think
            her stupider than ever. When Aunt Elizabeth did the
            photograph up in cardboard and told Emily to take it to
            the office Emily already knew what she meant to do.
            She went straight to the garret and took out of her box
            the water-colour Teddy had made of her. It was just
            the same size as the photograph. Emily removed the
            latter from its wrappings, spurning it aside with her foot.</p>
        <p>“That isn’t <em>me</em>,” she said. “I looked sulky because I
            felt sulky about the bang. But I hardly ever look sulky,
            so it isn’t fair.”</p>
        <p>She wrapped Teddy’s sketch up in the cardboard and
            then sat down and wrote a letter.</p>
        <p class="noi mb0"><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_235">235</a></span>
            “<span class="smcap">Dear Great-Aunt Nancy</span>:</p>
        <p class="mt0">“Aunt Elizabeth had my picture taken to send you but
            I don’t like it because it makes me look too ugly and I
            am putting another picture in instead. An <em>artist friend</em>
            made it for me. It is just like me when I’m smiling and
            have a bang. I am only <em>lending</em> it to you, not <em>giving</em> it,
            because I valew it very highly.</p>
        <p class="center mt0 mb0">“Your obedient grand niece,</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<span class="smcap">Emily Byrd Starr</span>.</p>
        <p class="mb0">“P. S. I am not so stupid as you think.</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“E. B. S.</p>
        <p>“P. S. No. 2. I am not stupid <em>at all</em>.”</p>
        <p>Emily put her letter in with the picture—thereby unconsciously
            cheating the post-office—and slipped out of
            the house to mail it. Once it was safely in the post-office
            she drew a breath of relief. She found the walk
            home very enjoyable. It was a bland day in early April
            and spring was looking at you round the corners. The
            Wind Woman was laughing and whistling over the wet
            sweet fields; freebooting crows held conferences in the tree
            tops; little pools of sunshine lay in the mossy hollows;
            the sea was a blaze of sapphire beyond the golden dunes;
            the maples in Lofty John’s bush were talking about red
            buds. Everything Emily had ever read of dream and
            myth and legend seemed a part of the charm of that
            bush. She was filled to her finger-tips with a rapture of
            living.</p>
        <p>“Oh, I smell spring!” she cried as she danced along
            the brook path.</p>
        <p>Then she began to compose a poem on it. Everybody
            who has ever lived in the world and could string
            two rhymes together has written a poem on spring. It is
            the most be-rhymed subject in the world—and always
            will be, because it is poetry incarnate itself. You can<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_236">236</a></span>
            never be a real poet if you haven’t made at least one poem
            about spring.</p>
        <p>Emily was wondering whether she would have elves
            dancing on the brookside by moonlight, or pixies sleeping
            in a bed of ferns in her poem, when something confronted
            her at a bend in the path which was neither elf
            nor pixy, but seemed odd and weird enough to belong to
            some of the tribes of Little People. Was it a witch?
            Or an elderly fay of evil intentions—the bad fairy of
            all christening tales?</p>
        <p>“I’m the b’y’s Aunt Tom,” said the appearance, seeing
            that Emily was too amazed to do anything but stand
            and stare.</p>
        <p>“Oh!” Emily gasped in relief. She was no longer
            frightened. But what a <em>very</em> peculiar looking lady Perry’s
            Aunt Tom was. Old—so old that it seemed quite
            impossible that she could ever have been young; a bright
            red hood over crone-like, fluttering grey locks; a little
            face seamed by a thousand fine, criss-cross wrinkles; a
            long nose with a knob on the end of it; little twinkling,
            eager, grey eyes under bristly brows; a ragged man’s
            coat covering her from neck to feet; a basket in one
            hand and a black knobby stick in the other.</p>
        <p>“Staring wasn’t thought good breeding in my time,”
            said Aunt Tom.</p>
        <p>“Oh!” said Emily again. “Excuse me— How do
            you do!” she added, with a vague grasp after her
            manners.</p>
        <p>“Polite—and not too proud,” said Aunt Tom, peering
            curiously at her. “I’ve been up to the big house with
            a pair of socks for the b’y but ’twas yourself I wanted
            to see.”</p>
        <p>“Me?” said Emily blankly.</p>
        <p>“Yis. The b’y has been talking a bit of you and a
            plan kem into my head. Thinks I to myself it’s no bad
            notion. But I’ll make sure before I waste my bit o’
            money. Emily Byrd Starr is your name and Murray is<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_237">237</a></span>
            your nature. If I give the b’y an eddication will ye
            marry him when ye grow up?”</p>
        <p>“Me!” said Emily again. It seemed to be all she could
            say. Was she dreaming? She <em>must</em> be.</p>
        <p>“Yis—you. You’re half Murray and it’ll be a great
            step up f’r the b’y. He’s smart and he’ll be a rich man
            some day and boss the country. But divil a cent will I
            spend on him unless you promise.”</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth wouldn’t let me,” cried Emily, too
            frightened of this odd old body to refuse on her own
            account.</p>
        <p>“If you’ve got any Murray in you you’ll do your own
            choosing,” said Aunt Tom, thrusting her face so close to
            Emily’s that her bushy eyebrows tickled Emily’s nose.
            “Say you’ll marry the b’y and to college he goes.”</p>
        <p>Emily seemed to be rendered speechless. She could
            think of nothing to say—oh, if she could <em>only</em> wake up!
            She could not even run.</p>
        <p>“Say it!” insisted Aunt Tom, thumping her stick
            sharply on a stone in the path.</p>
        <p>Emily was so horrified that she might have said something—anything—to
            escape. But at this moment Perry
            bounded out of the spruce copse, his face white with rage,
            and seized his Aunt Tom most disrespectfully by the
            shoulder.</p>
        <p>“You go home!” he said furiously.</p>
        <p>“Now, b’y dear,” quavered Aunt Tom deprecatingly.
            “I was only trying to do you a good turn. I was asking
            her to marry ye after a bit an—”</p>
        <p>“I’ll do my own asking!” Perry was angrier than
            ever. “You’ve likely spoiled everything. Go home—go
            home, I say!”</p>
        <p>Aunt Tom hobbled off muttering, “Then I’ll know
            better than to waste me bit o’ money. No Murray, no
            money, me b’y.”</p>
        <p>When she had disappeared down the brook path Perry
            turned to Emily. From white he had gone very red.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_238">238</a></span></p>
        <p>“Don’t mind her—she’s cracked,” he said. “Of
            course, when I grow up I mean to ask you to marry me
            but—”</p>
        <p>“I couldn’t—Aunt Elizabeth—”</p>
        <p>“Oh, she will then. I’m going to be premier of Canada
            some day.”</p>
        <p>“But I wouldn’t want—I’m sure I wouldn’t—”</p>
        <p>“You will when you grow up. Ilse is better looking
            of course, and I don’t know why I like you best but I do.”</p>
        <p>“Don’t you ever talk to me like this again!” commanded
            Emily, beginning to recover her dignity.</p>
        <p>“Oh, I won’t—not till we grow up. I’m as ashamed
            of it as you are,” said Perry with a sheepish grin.
            “Only I had to say something after Aunt Tom butted in
            like that. I ain’t to blame for it so don’t you hold it
            against me. But just you remember that I’m going to
            ask you some day. And I believe Teddy Kent is too.”</p>
        <p>Emily was walking haughtily away but she turned at
            this to say coolly over her shoulder,</p>
        <p>“If he does I’ll marry him.”</p>
        <p>“If you do I’ll knock his head off,” shouted Perry in
            a prompt rage.</p>
        <p>But Emily walked steadily on home and went to the
            garret to think things over.</p>
        <p>“It has been romantic but not comfortable,” was her
            conclusion. And that particular poem on spring was
            never finished.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xxii" />CHAPTER XXII<br />
                <span>Wyther Grange</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">N</span>O reply or acknowledgement came from Great-Aunt
            Nancy Priest regarding Emily’s picture. Aunt
            Elizabeth and Aunt Laura, knowing Great-Aunt Nancy’s
            ways tolerably well, were not surprised at this, but Emily<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_239">239</a></span>
            felt rather worried over it. Perhaps Great-Aunt Nancy
            did not approve of what she had done; or perhaps she
            still thought her too stupid to bother with.</p>
        <p>Emily did not like to lie under the imputation of stupidity.
            She wrote a scathing epistle to Great-Aunt Nancy
            on a letter-bill in which she did not mince her opinions as
            to that ancient lady’s knowledge of the rules of epistolary
            etiquette; the letter was folded up and stowed away on
            the little shelf under the sofa but it served its purpose in
            blowing off steam and Emily had ceased to think about
            the matter when a letter came from Great-Aunt Nancy in
            July.</p>
        <p>Elizabeth and Laura talked the matter over in the cook-house,
            forgetful or ignorant of the fact that Emily was
            sitting on the kitchen doorstep just outside. Emily was
            imagining herself attending a drawing-room of Queen
            Victoria. Robed in white, with ostrich plumes, veil, and
            court train, she had just bent to kiss the Queen’s hand
            when Aunt Elizabeth’s voice shattered her dream as a
            pebble thrown into a pool scatters the fairy reflection.</p>
        <p>“What is your opinion, Laura,” Aunt Elizabeth was
            saying, “of letting Emily visit Aunt Nancy?”</p>
        <p>Emily pricked up her ears. What was in the wind
            now?</p>
        <p>“From her letter she seems very anxious to have the
            child,” said Laura.</p>
        <p>Elizabeth sniffed.</p>
        <p>“A whim—a whim. You know what her whims are.
            Likely by the time Emily got there she’d be quite over
            it and have no use for her.”</p>
        <p>“Yes, but on the other hand if we don’t let her go
            she will be dreadfully offended and never forgive us—or
            Emily. Emily should have her chance.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know that her chance is worth much. If
            Aunt Nancy really has any money beyond her annuity—and
            that’s what neither you nor I nor any living soul<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_240">240</a></span>
            knows, unless it’s Caroline—she’ll likely leave it all to
            some of the Priests—Leslie Priest’s a favourite of hers,
            I understand. Aunt Nancy always liked her husband’s
            family better than her own, even though she’s always
            slurring at them. Still—she <em>might</em> take a fancy to Emily—they’re
            both so odd they might suit each other—but
            you know the way she talks—she and that abominable old
            Caroline.”</p>
        <p>“Emily is too young to understand,” said Aunt Laura.</p>
        <p>“I understand more than you think,” cried Emily indignantly.</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth jerked open the cook-house door.</p>
        <p>“Emily Starr, haven’t you learned by this time not to
            listen?”</p>
        <p>“I wasn’t listening. I thought you knew I was sitting
            here—I can’t help my ears <em>hearing</em>. Why didn’t you
            <em>whisper</em>? When you whisper I know you’re talking secrets
            and I don’t try to hear them. Am I going to Great-Aunt
            Nancy’s for a visit?”
        </p>
        <p>“We haven’t decided,” said Aunt Elizabeth coldly, and
            that was all the satisfaction Emily got for a week. She
            hardly knew herself whether she wanted to go or not.
            Aunt Elizabeth had begun making cheese—New Moon
            was noted for its cheeses—and Emily found the whole
            process absorbing, from the time the rennet was put in
            the warm new milk till the white curds were packed away
            in the hoop and put under the press in the old orchard,
            with the big, round, grey “cheese” stone to weight it
            down as it had weighed down New Moon cheeses for
            a hundred years. And then she and Ilse and Teddy and
            Perry were absorbed heart and soul in “playing out” the
            “Midsummer Night’s Dream” in Lofty John’s bush and it
            was very fascinating. When they entered Lofty John’s
            bush they went out of the realm of daylight and things
            known into the realm of twilight and mystery and enchantment.
            Teddy had painted wonderful scenery on old
            boards and pieces of sails, which Perry had got at the<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_241">241</a></span>
            Harbor. Ilse had fashioned delightful fairy wings from
            tissue paper and tinsel, and Perry had made an ass’s head
            for <em>Bottom</em> out of an old calf-skin that was very realistic.
            Emily had toiled happily for many weeks copying
            out the different parts and adapting them to circumstances.
            She had “cut” the play after a fashion that
            would have harrowed Shakespeare’s soul but after all
            the result was quite pretty and coherent. It did not
            worry them that four small actors had to take six times
            as many parts. Emily was <em>Titania</em> and <em>Hermia</em> and a
            job lot of fairies besides, Ilse was <em>Hippolyta</em> and <em>Helena</em>,
            plus some more fairies, and the boys were anything that
            the dialogue required. Aunt Elizabeth knew nothing of
            it all; she would promptly have put a stop to the
            whole thing, for she thought play-acting exceedingly
            wicked; but Aunt Laura was privy to the plot, and Cousin
            Jimmy and Lofty John had already attended a moonlight
            rehearsal.</p>
        <p>To go away and leave all this, even for a time, would
            be a hard wrench, but on the other hand Emily had a
            burning curiosity to see Great-Aunt Nancy and Wyther
            Grange, her quaint, old house at Priest Pond with the
            famous stone dogs on the gateposts. On the whole, she
            thought she would like to go; and when she saw Aunt
            Laura doing up her starched white petticoats and Aunt
            Elizabeth grimly dusting off a small, black, nail-studded
            trunk in the garret she knew, before she was told, that
            the visit to Priest Pond was going to come off; so she took
            out the letter she had written to Aunt Nancy and added an
            apologetic postscript.</p>
        <p>Ilse chose to be disgruntled because Emily was going
            for a visit. In reality Ilse felt appalled at the lonely
            prospect of a month or more without her inseparable
            chum. No more jolly evenings of play-acting in Lofty
            John’s bush, no more pungent quarrels. Besides, Ilse
            herself had never been anywhere for a visit in her whole
            life and she felt sore over this fact.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_242">242</a></span></p>
        <p>“<em>I</em> wouldn’t go to Wyther Grange for anything,” said
            Ilse. “It’s haunted.”</p>
        <p>“’Tisn’t.”</p>
        <p>“Yes! It’s haunted by a ghost you can <em>feel</em> and <em>hear</em>
            but never <em>see</em>. Oh, I wouldn’t be <em>you</em> for the world!
            Your Great-Aunt Nancy is an <em>awful crank</em> and the old
            woman who lives with her is a <em>witch</em>. She’ll put a spell
            on you. You’ll pine away and die.”</p>
        <p>“I won’t—she isn’t!”</p>
        <p>“<em>Is!</em> Why, she makes the stone dogs on the gateposts
            howl every night if any one comes near the place. They
            go, ‘<em>Wo-or-oo-oo</em>.’”</p>
        <p>Ilse was not a born elocutionist for nothing. Her
            “wo-or-oo-oo” was extremely gruesome. But it was daylight,
            and Emily was as brave as a lion in daylight.</p>
        <p>“You’re jealous,” she said, and walked off.</p>
        <p>“I’m not, you blithering centipede,” Ilse yelled after
            her. “Putting on airs because your aunt has stone dogs
            on her gateposts! Why, I know a woman in Shrewsbury
            who has dogs on her posts that are ten times stonier than
            your aunt’s!”</p>
        <p>But next morning Ilse was over to bid Emily good-bye
            and entreat her to write every week. Emily was going
            to drive to Priest Pond with Old Kelly. Aunt Elizabeth
            was to have driven her but Aunt Elizabeth was not feeling
            well that day and Aunt Laura could not leave her.
            Cousin Jimmy had to work at the hay. It looked as if
            she could not go, and this was rather serious, for Aunt
            Nancy had been told to expect her that day and Aunt
            Nancy did not like to be disappointed. If Emily did not
            turn up at Priest Pond on the day set Great-Aunt Nancy
            was quite capable of shutting the door in her face when
            she did appear and telling her to go back home. Nothing
            less than this conviction would have induced Aunt Elizabeth
            to fall in with Old Kelly’s suggestion that Emily
            should ride to Priest Pond with him. His home was on
            the other side of it and he was going straight there.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_243">243</a></span></p>
        <p>Emily was quite delighted. She liked Old Kelly and
            thought that a drive on his fine red wagon would be quite
            an adventure. Her little black box was hoisted to the
            roof and tied there and they went clinking and glittering
            down the New Moon lane in fine style. The tins in the
            bowels of the wagon behind them rumbled like a young
            earthquake.</p>
        <p>“Get up, my nag, get up,” said Old Kelly. “Sure, an’
            I always like to drive the pretty gurrls. An’ when is the
            wedding to be?”</p>
        <p>“Whose wedding?”</p>
        <p>“The slyness av her! Your own, av coorse.”</p>
        <p>“I have no intention of being married—immediately,”
            said Emily, in a very good imitation of Aunt Elizabeth’s
            tone and manner.</p>
        <p>“Sure, and ye’re a chip av the ould block. Miss Elizabeth
            herself couldn’t have said it better. Get up, my
            nag, get up.”</p>
        <p>“I only meant,” said Emily, fearing that she had insulted
            Old Kelly, “that I am too young to be married.”</p>
        <p>“The younger the better—the less mischief ye’ll be after
            working with them come-hither eyes. Get up, my
            nag, get up. The baste is tired. So we’ll let him go
            at his own swate will. Here’s a bag av swaties for ye.
            Ould Kelley always trates the ladies. Come now, tell
            me all about him.”</p>
        <p>“About who?”—but Emily knew quite well.</p>
        <p>“Your beau, av coorse.”</p>
        <p>“I haven’t <em>any</em> beau. Mr. Kelly, I wish you wouldn’t
            talk to me about such things.”</p>
        <p>“Sure, and I won’t if ’tis a sore subject. Don’t ye be
            minding if ye haven’t got one—there’ll be scads av them
            after a while. And if the right one doesn’t know what’s
            good for him, just ye come to Ould Kelly and get some
            toad ointment.”</p>
        <p>Toad ointment! It sounded horrible. Emily shivered.
            But she would rather talk about toad ointment than beaux.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_244">244</a></span></p>
        <p>“What is that for?”</p>
        <p>“It’s a love charm,” said Old Kelly mysteriously.
            “Put a li’l smootch on his eyelids and he’s yourn for life
            with never a squint at any other gurrl.”</p>
        <p>“It doesn’t <em>sound</em> very nice,” said Emily. “How do
            you make it?”</p>
        <p>“You bile four toads alive till they’re good and soft
            and then mash—”</p>
        <p>“Oh, stop, stop!” implored Emily, putting her hands
            to her ears. “I don’t want to hear any more—you
            couldn’t be so cruel!”</p>
        <p>“Cruel is it? You were after eating lobsters this day
            that were biled alive—”</p>
        <p>“I don’t believe it. I don’t. If it’s true I’ll never,
            never eat one again. Oh, Mr. Kelly, I thought you were
            a nice kind man—but those poor toads!”</p>
        <p>“Gurrl dear, it was only me joke. An’ you won’t be
            nading toad ointment to win your lad’s love. Wait you
            now—I’ve something in the till behind me for a prisent
            for you.”</p>
        <p>Old Kelly fished out a box which he put into Emily’s
            lap. She found a dainty little hairbrush in it.</p>
        <p>“Look at the back av it,” said Old Kelly. “You’ll
            see something handsome—all the love charm ye’ll ever
            nade.”</p>
        <p>Emily turned it over. Her own face looked back at
            her from a little inset mirror surrounded by a scroll of
            painted roses.</p>
        <p>“Oh, Mr. Kelly—how pretty—I mean the roses and the
            glass,” she cried. “Is it really for me? Oh, thank you,
            thank you! Now, I can have Emily-in-the-glass whenever
            I want her. Why, I can carry her round with me.
            And you were really only in fun about the toads!”</p>
        <p>“Av coorse. Get up, my nag, get up. An’ so ye’re
            going to visit the ould lady over at Praste Pond? Ever
            been there?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_245">245</a></span></p>
        <p>“No.”</p>
        <p>“It’s full of Prastes. Ye can’t throw a stone but ye
            hit one. And hit one—hit all. They’re as proud and
            lofty as the Murrays themselves. The only wan I know
            is Adam Praste—the others hold too high. He’s the
            black shape and quite sociable. But if ye want to see
            how the world looked on the morning after the flood
            go into his barnyard on a rainy day. Look a-here, gurrl
            dear”—Old Kelly lowered his voice mysteriously—“don’t
            ye ever marry a Praste.”</p>
        <p>“Why not?” asked Emily, who had never thought of
            marrying a Priest but was immediately curious as to why
            she shouldn’t.</p>
        <p>“They’re ill to marry—ill to live with. The wives
            die young. The ould lady of the Grange fought her man
            out and buried him but she had the Murray luck. I
            wouldn’t trust it too far. The only dacent Praste among
            them is the wan they call Jarback Praste and he’s too ould
            for you.”</p>
        <p>“Why do they call him Jarback?”</p>
        <p>“Wan av his shoulders is a l’il bit higher than the other.
            He’s got a bit of money and doesn’t be after having to
            work. A book worrum, I’m belaving. Have ye got a
            bit av cold iron about you?”</p>
        <p>“No; why?”</p>
        <p>“Ye should have. Old Caroline Praste at the Grange
            is a witch if ever there was one.”</p>
        <p>“Why, that’s what Ilse said. But there are no such
            thing as witches really, Mr. Kelly.”</p>
        <p>“Maybe that’s thrue but it’s better to be on the safe
            side. Here, put this horseshoe-nail in your pocket and
            don’t cross her if ye can help it. Ye don’t mind if I
            have a bit av a smoke, do ye?”</p>
        <p>Emily did not mind at all. It left her free to follow
            her own thoughts, which were more agreeable than Old
            Kelly’s talk of toads and witches. The road from Blair<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_246">246</a></span>
            Water to Priest Pond was a very lovely one, winding
            along the gulf shore, crossing fir fringed rivers and inlets,
            and coming ever and anon on one of the ponds for which
            that part of the north shore was noted—Blair Water,
            Derry Pond, Long Pond, Three Ponds where three blue
            lakelets were strung together like three great sapphires
            held by a silver thread; and then Priest Pond, the largest
            of all, almost as round as Blair Water. As they drove
            down towards it Emily drank the scene in with avid
            eyes—as soon as possible she must write a description of
            it; she had packed the Jimmy blank book in her box for
            just such purposes.</p>
        <p>The air seemed to be filled with opal dust over the great
            pond and the bowery summer homesteads around it. A
            western sky of smoky red was arched over the big Malvern
            Bay beyond. Little grey sails were drifting along
            by the fir-fringed shores. A sequestered side road,
            fringed thickly with young maples and birches, led down
            to Wyther Grange. How damp and cool the air was in
            the hollows! And how the ferns did smell! Emily was
            sorry when they reached Wyther Grange and climbed in
            between the gateposts whereon the big stone dogs sat very
            stonily, looking grim enough in the twilight.</p>
        <p>The wide hall door was open and a flood of light
            streamed out over the lawn. A little old woman was
            standing in it. Old Kelly seemed suddenly in something
            of a hurry. He swung Emily and her box to the ground,
            shook hands hastily and whispered, “Don’t lose that bit
            av a nail. Good-bye. I wish ye a cool head and a warm
            heart,” and was off before the little old woman could
            reach them.</p>
        <p>“So this is Emily of New Moon!” Emily heard a
            rather shrill, cracked voice saying. She felt a thin, claw-like
            hand grasp hers and draw her towards the door.
            There were no witches, Emily knew,—but she thrust her
            hand into her pocket and touched the horseshoe-nail.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_247">247</a></span>
            <h2><a id="xxiii" />CHAPTER XXIII<br />
                <span>Deals with Ghosts</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap"><span class="dropcap2">“</span>Y</span>OUR aunt
            is in the back parlor,” said Caroline
            Priest. “Come this way. Are you tired?”</p>
        <p>“No,” said Emily, following Caroline and taking her
            in thoroughly. If Caroline were a witch she was a very
            small one. She was really no taller than Emily herself.
            She wore a black silk dress and a little string cap of black
            net edged with black ruching on her yellowish white hair.
            Her face was more wrinkled than Emily had ever supposed
            a face could be and she had the peculiar grey-green
            eyes which, as Emily afterwards discovered, “ran” in the
            Priest clan.</p>
        <p>“You may be a witch,” thought Emily, “but I think I
            can manage <em>you</em>.”</p>
        <p>They went through the spacious hall, catching glimpses
            on either side of large, dim, splendid rooms, then
            through the kitchen end out of it into an odd little back
            hall. It was long and narrow and dark. On one side
            was a row of four, square, small-paned windows, on the
            other were cupboards, reaching from floor to ceiling,
            with doors of black shining wood. Emily felt like one
            of the heroines in Gothic romance, wandering at midnight
            through a subterranean dungeon, with some unholy
            guide. She had read “The Mysteries of Udolpho” and
            “The Romance of the Forest” before the taboo had fallen
            on Dr. Burnley’s bookcase. She shivered. It was awful
            but interesting.</p>
        <p>At the end of the hall a flight of four steps led up to a
            door. Beside the steps was an immense black grandfather’s
            clock reaching almost to the ceiling.</p>
        <p>“We shut little girls up in that when they’re bad,”<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_248">248</a></span>
            whispered Caroline, nodding at Emily, as she opened the
            door that led into the back parlour.</p>
        <p>“I’ll take good care you won’t shut <em>me</em> up in it,”
            thought Emily.</p>
        <p>The back parlour was a pretty, quaint old room where
            a table was laid for supper. Caroline led Emily through
            it and knocked at another door, using a quaint old brass
            knocker that was fashioned like a chessy-cat, with such
            an irresistible grin that you wanted to grin, too, when
            you saw it. Somebody said, “Come in,” and they went
            down another four steps—was there ever such a funny
            house?—into a bedroom. And here at last was Great-Aunt
            Nancy Priest, sitting in her arm-chair, with her
            black stick leaning against her knee, and her tiny white
            hands, still pretty, and sparkling with fine rings, lying on
            her purple silk apron.</p>
        <p>Emily felt a distinct shock of disappointment. After
            hearing that poem in which Nancy Murray’s beauty of
            nut-brown hair and starry brown eyes and cheek of satin
            rose had been be-rhymed she had somehow expected
            Great-Aunt Nancy, in spite of her ninety years, to be
            beautiful still. But Aunt Nancy was white-haired and
            yellow-skinned and wrinkled and shrunken, though her
            brown eyes were still bright and shrewd. Somehow,
            she looked like an old fairy—an impish, tolerant old
            fairy, who might turn suddenly malevolent if you rubbed
            her the wrong way—only fairies never wore long, gold-tasselled
            earrings that almost touched their shoulders, or
            white lace caps with purple pansies in them.</p>
        <p>“So this is Juliet’s girl!” she said, giving Emily one of
            her sparkling hands. “Don’t look so startled, child.
            I’m not going to kiss you. I never held with inflicting
            kisses on defenseless creatures simply because they were
            so unlucky as to be my relatives. Now, who does she
            look like, Caroline?”</p>
        <p>Emily made a mental grimace. Now for another ordeal
            of comparisons, wherein dead-and-gone noses and<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_249">249</a></span>
            eyes and foreheads would be dragged out and fitted on
            her. She was thoroughly tired of having her looks
            talked over in every gathering of the clans.</p>
        <p>“Not much like the Murrays,” said Caroline, peering
            so closely into her face that Emily involuntarily drew
            back. “Not so handsome as the Murrays.”</p>
        <p>“Nor the Starrs either. Her father was a handsome
            man—so handsome that I’d have run away with him <a id="myself" /><ins
                title="Original has 'myseif'">myself</ins>
            if I’d been fifty years younger. There’s nothing of
            Juliet in her that I can see. Juliet was pretty. You are
            not as good-looking as that picture made you out but I
            didn’t expect you would be. Pictures and epitaphs are
            never to be trusted. Where’s your bang gone, Emily?”</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth combed it back.”</p>
        <p>“Well, you comb it down again while you’re in my
            house. There’s something of your Grandfather Murray
            about your eye-brows. Your grandfather was a handsome
            man—and a darned bad-tempered one—almost as
            bad-tempered <a id="as" /><ins title="Original has 'at'">as</ins> the Priests,—hey, Caroline?”</p>
        <p>“If you please, Great-Aunt Nancy,” said Emily deliberately,
            “I don’t like to be told I look like other people.
            I look just like myself.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Nancy chuckled.</p>
        <p>“Spunk, I see. Good. I never cared for meek youngsters.
            So you’re not stupid, eh?”</p>
        <p>“No, I’m not.”</p>
        <p>Great-Aunt Nancy grinned this time. Her false teeth
            looked uncannily white and young in her old, brown face.</p>
        <p>“Good. If you’ve brains it’s better than beauty—brains
            last, beauty doesn’t. Me, for example. Caroline
            here, now, never had either brains nor beauty, had you,
            Caroline? Come, let’s go to supper. Thank goodness,
            my stomach has stood by me if my good looks haven’t.”</p>
        <p>Great-Aunt Nancy hobbled, by the aid of her stick, up
            the steps and over to the table. She sat at one end, Caroline
            at the other, Emily between, feeling rather uncomfortable.
            But the ruling passion was still strong in her<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_250">250</a></span>
            and she was already composing a description of them for
            the blank book.</p>
        <p>“I wonder if anybody will be sorry when you die,”
            she thought, looking intently at Caroline’s wizened old
            face.</p>
        <p>“Come now, tell me,” said Aunt Nancy. “If you’re
            not stupid, why did you write me such a stupid letter that
            first time. Lord, but it was stupid! I read it over to
            Caroline to punish her whenever she is naughty.”</p>
        <p>“I couldn’t write any other kind of a letter because
            Aunt Elizabeth said she was going to read it.”</p>
        <p>“Trust Elizabeth for that. Well, you can write what
            you like here—and say what you like—and do what you
            like. Nobody will interfere with you or try to bring you
            up. I asked you for a visit, not for discipline. Thought
            likely you’d have enough of that at New Moon. You
            can have the run of the house and pick a beau to your
            liking from the Priest boys—not that the young fry are
            what they were in my time.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t want a beau,” retorted Emily. She felt
            rather disgusted. Old Kelly had ranted about beaux half
            the way over and here was Aunt Nancy beginning on the
            same unnecessary subject.</p>
        <p>“Don’t you tell me,” said Aunt Nancy, laughing till
            her gold tassels shook. “There never was a Murray of
            New Moon that didn’t like a beau. When I was your
            age I had half a dozen. All the little boys in Blair Water
            were fighting about me. Caroline here now never had
            a beau in her life, had you, Caroline?”</p>
        <p>“Never wanted one,” snapped Caroline.</p>
        <p>“Eighty and twelve say the same thing and both lie,”
            said Aunt Nancy. “What’s the use of being hypocrites
            among ourselves? I don’t say it isn’t well enough when
            men are about. Caroline, do you notice what a pretty
            hand Emily has? As pretty as mine when I was young.
            And an elbow like a cat’s. Cousin Susan Murray had an
            elbow like that. It’s odd—she has more Murray points<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_251">251</a></span>
            than Starr points and yet she looks like the Starrs and
            not like the Murrays. What odd sums in addition we
            all are—the answer is never what you’d expect. Caroline,
            what a pity Jarback isn’t home. He’d like Emily—I
            have a feeling he’d like Emily. Jarback’s the only
            Priest that’ll ever go to heaven, Emily. Let’s have a
            look at your ankles, puss.”</p>
        <p>Emily rather unwillingly put out her foot. Aunt
            Nancy nodded her satisfaction.</p>
        <p>“Mary Shipley’s ankle. Only one in a generation has
            it. I had it. The Murray ankles are thick. Even your
            mother’s ankles were thick. Look at that instep, Caroline.
            Emily, you’re not a beauty but if you learn to use
            your eyes and hands and feet properly you’ll pass for
            one. The men are easily fooled and if the women say
            you’re not ’twill be held for jealousy.”</p>
        <p>Emily decided that this was a good opportunity to
            find out something that had puzzled her.</p>
        <p>“Old Mr. Kelly said I had come-hither eyes, Aunt
            Nancy. Have I? And <em>what</em> are come-hither eyes?”</p>
        <p>“Jock Kelly’s an old ass. You haven’t come-hither
            eyes—it wouldn’t be a Murray tradish.” Aunt Nancy
            laughed. “The Murrays have keep-your-distance eyes—and
            so have you—though your lashes contradict them a
            bit. But sometimes eyes like that—combined with certain
            other points—are quite as effective as come-hither
            eyes. Men go by contraries oftener than not—if you
            tell them to keep off they’ll come on. My own Nathaniel
            now—the only way to get him to do anything was to
            coax him to do the opposite. Remember, Caroline?
            Have another cooky, Emily?”</p>
        <p>“I haven’t had one yet,” said Emily, rather resentfully.</p>
        <p>Those cookies looked very tempting and she had been
            wishing they might be passed. She didn’t know why
            Aunt Nancy and Caroline both laughed. Caroline’s
            laugh was unpleasant—a dry, rusty sort of laugh—“no
            juice in it,” Emily decided. She thought she would<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_252">252</a></span>
            write in her description that Caroline had a “thin, rattling
            laugh.”</p>
        <p>“What do you think of us?” demanded Aunt Nancy.
            “Come now, what <em>do</em> you think of us?”</p>
        <p>Emily was dreadfully embarrassed. She had just
            been thinking of writing that Aunt Nancy looked “withered
            and shrivelled;” but one couldn’t say that—one
            <em>couldn’t</em>.
        </p>
        <p>“Tell the truth and shame the devil,” said Aunt Nancy.</p>
        <p>“That isn’t a fair question,” cried Emily.</p>
        <p>“You think,” said Aunt Nancy, grinning, “that I’m a
            hideous old hag and that Caroline isn’t quite human.
            She isn’t. She never was—but you should have seen <em>me</em>
            seventy years ago. I was handsomest of all the handsome
            Murrays. The men were mad about me. When
            I married Nat Priest his three brothers could have cut
            his throat. One cut his own. Oh, I played havoc in my
            time. All I regret is I can’t live it over. ’Twas a grand
            life while it lasted. I queened it over them. The women
            hated me, of course—all but Caroline here. You
            worshipped me, didn’t you, Caroline? And you worship
            me yet, don’t you, Caroline? Caroline, I <em>wish</em> you didn’t
            have a wart on your nose.”</p>
        <p>“I wish you had one on your tongue,” said Caroline
            waspishly.</p>
        <p>Emily was beginning to feel tired and bewildered. It
            was interesting—and Aunt Nancy was kind enough in
            her queer way; but at home Ilse and Perry and Teddy
            would be foregathering in Lofty John’s bush for their
            evening revel, and Saucy Sal would be sitting on the
            dairy steps, waiting for Cousin Jimmy to give her the
            froth. Emily suddenly realized that she was as homesick
            for New Moon as she had been for Maywood her
            first night at New Moon.</p>
        <p>“The child’s tired,” said Aunt Nancy. “Take her to
            bed, Caroline. Put her in the Pink Room.”</p>
        <p>Emily followed Caroline through the back hall,<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_253">253</a></span>
            through the kitchen, through the front hall, up the stairs,
            down a long hall, through a long side hall. Where on
            earth was she being taken? Finally they reached a large
            room. Caroline set down the lamp, and asked Emily if
            she had a nightgown.</p>
        <p>“Of course I have. Do you suppose Aunt Elizabeth
            would have let me come without one?”</p>
        <p>Emily was quite indignant.</p>
        <p>“Nancy says you can sleep as long as you like in the
            morning,” said Caroline. “Good-night. Nancy and I
            sleep in the old wing, of course, and the rest of us sleep
            well in our graves.”</p>
        <p>With this cryptic remark Caroline trotted out and shut
            the door.</p>
        <p>Emily sat down on an embroidered ottoman and
            looked about her. The window curtains were of faded
            pink brocade and the walls were hung with pink paper
            decorated with diamonds of rose chains. It made a very
            pretty fairy paper, as Emily found by cocking her eyes
            at it. There was a green carpet on the floor, so lavishly
            splashed with big pink roses that Emily was almost
            afraid to walk on it. She decided that the room was a
            very splendid one.</p>
        <p>“But I have to sleep here alone, so I must say my
            prayers very carefully,” she reflected.</p>
        <p>She undressed rather hastily, blew out the light and got
            into bed. She covered herself up to her chin and lay
            there, staring at the high, white ceiling. She had grown
            so used to Aunt Elizabeth’s curtained bed that she felt curiously
            unsheltered in this low, modern one. But at least
            the window was wide open—evidently Aunt Nancy did
            not share Aunt Elizabeth’s horror of night air. Through
            it Emily could see summer fields lying in the magic of
            a rising yellow moon. But the room was big and
            ghostly. She felt horribly far away from everybody.
            She was lonesome—homesick. She thought of Old
            Kelly and his toad ointment. Perhaps he <em>did</em> boil the<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_254">254</a></span>
            toads alive after all. This hideous thought tormented
            her. It was <em>awful</em> to think of toads—or anything—being
            boiled alive. She had never slept alone before.
            Suddenly she was frightened. How the window rattled.
            It sounded terribly as if somebody—or <em>something</em>—were
            trying to get in. She thought of Ilse’s ghost—a
            ghost you couldn’t <em>see</em> but could <em>hear</em> and <em>feel</em> was something
            especially spooky in the way of ghosts—she
            thought of the stone dogs that went “Wo—or—oo—oo”
            at midnight. A dog <em>did</em> begin to howl somewhere.
            Emily felt a cold perspiration on her brow. <em>What</em> had
            Caroline meant about the rest of them sleeping well in
            their graves? The floor creaked. Wasn’t there somebody—or
            <em>something</em>—tiptoeing round outside the door?
            Didn’t something move in the corner? There were mysterious
            sounds in the long hall.
        </p>
        <p>“I <em>won’t</em> be scared,” said Emily. “I <em>won’t</em> think of
            those things, and tomorrow I’ll write down all about how
            I feel now.”</p>
        <p>And then—she <em>did</em> hear something—right behind the
            wall at the head of her bed. There was no mistake
            about it. It was not imagination. She heard distinctly
            strange uncanny rustles—as if stiff silk dresses were
            rubbing against each other—as if fluttering wings fanned
            the air—and there were soft, low, muffled sounds like
            tiny children’s cries or moans. They lasted—they kept
            on. Now and then they would die away—then start up
            again.</p>
        <p>Emily cowered under the bedclothes, cold with real
            terror. Before, her fright had been only on the surface—she
            had <em>known</em> there was nothing to fear, even while
            she feared. Something in her braced her to endure.
            But <em>this</em> was no mistake—no imagination. The rustles
            and flutterings and cries and moans were all too real.
            Wyther Grange suddenly became a dreadful, uncanny
            place. Ilse was right—it <em>was</em> haunted. And she was
            all alone here, with miles of rooms and halls between her<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_255">255</a></span>
            and any human being. It was cruel of Aunt Nancy to
            put her in a haunted room. Aunt Nancy must have
            known it was haunted—cruel old Aunt Nancy with her
            ghoulish pride in men who had killed themselves for her.
            Oh, if she were back in dear New Moon, with Aunt
            Elizabeth beside her. Aunt Elizabeth was not an ideal
            bedfellow but she was flesh-and-blood. And if the windows
            were hermetically sealed they kept out spooks as
            well as night air.</p>
        <p>“Perhaps it won’t be so bad if I say my prayers over
            again,” thought Emily.</p>
        <p>But even this didn’t help much.</p>
        <p>To the end of her life Emily never forgot that first horrible
            night at Wyther Grange. She was so tired that
            sometimes she dozed fitfully off only to be awakened in
            a few minutes in panic horror, by the rustling and
            muffled moans behind her bed. Every ghost and groan,
            every tortured spirit and bleeding nun of the books she
            had read came into her mind.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth was right—novels aren’t fit to read,”
            she thought. “Oh, I will die here—of fright—I know I
            will. I know I’m a coward—I can’t be brave.”</p>
        <p>When morning came the room was bright with sunshine
            and free from mysterious sounds. Emily got up,
            dressed and found her way to the old wing. She was
            pale, with black-ringed eyes, but resolute.</p>
        <p>“Well, and how did you sleep?” asked Aunt Nancy
            graciously.</p>
        <p>Emily ignored the question.</p>
        <p>“I want to go home today,” she said.</p>
        <p>Aunt Nancy stared.</p>
        <p>“Home? Nonsense! Are you such a homesick baby
            as that?”</p>
        <p>“I’m not homesick—not <em>very</em>—but I must go home.”</p>
        <p>“You can’t—there’s no one here to take you. You
            don’t expect Caroline can drive you to Blair Water, do
            you?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_256">256</a></span></p>
        <p>“Then I will walk.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Nancy thumped her stick angrily on the floor.</p>
        <p>“You will stay right here until I’m ready for you to
            go, Miss Puss. I never tolerate any whims but my own.
            Caroline knows that, don’t you, Caroline? Sit down
            to your breakfast—and eat—<em>eat</em>.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Nancy glared at Emily.</p>
        <p>“I won’t stay here,” said Emily. “I won’t stay another
            night in that horrible haunted room. It was cruel
            of you to put me there. If—” Emily gave Aunt Nancy
            glare for glare—“if I was Salome I’d ask for <em>your</em> head
            on a charger.”</p>
        <p>“Hoity-toity! What nonsense is this about a haunted
            room? We’ve no ghosts at Wyther Grange. Have
            we, Caroline? We don’t consider them hygienic.”</p>
        <p>“You have something <em>dreadful</em> in that room—it rustled
            and moaned and cried all night long right in the wall
            behind my bed. I won’t stay—I won’t—.”</p>
        <p>Emily’s tears came in spite of her efforts to repress
            them. She was so unstrung nervously that she couldn’t
            help crying. It lacked but little of hysterics with her
            already.</p>
        <p>Aunt Nancy looked at Caroline and Caroline looked
            back at Aunt Nancy.</p>
        <p>“We should have told her, Caroline. It’s all our fault.
            I clean forgot—it’s so long since any one slept in the
            Pink Room. No wonder she was frightened. Emily,
            you poor child, it was a shame. It would serve me right
            to have my head on a charger, you vindictive scrap. We
            should have told you.”</p>
        <p>“Told me—what?”</p>
        <p>“About the swallows in the chimney. That was what
            you heard. The big central chimney goes right up
            through the walls behind your bed. It is never used now
            since the fireplaces were built in. The swallows nest
            there—hundreds of them. They do make an uncanny
            noise—fluttering and quarrelling as they do.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_257">257</a></span></p>
        <p>Emily felt foolish and ashamed—much more ashamed
            than she needed to feel, for her experience had really
            been a very trying one, and older folks than she had been
            woefully frightened o’ nights in the Pink Room
            at Wyther Grange. Nancy Priest <em>had</em> put people into
            that room sometimes expressly to scare them. But to do
            her justice she really had forgotten in Emily’s case and
            was sorry.</p>
        <p>Emily said no more about going home; Caroline and
            Aunt Nancy were both very kind to her that day; she
            had a good nap in the afternoon; and when the second
            night came she went straight to the Pink Room and slept
            soundly the night through. The rustles and cries were
            as distinct as ever but swallows and spectres were two
            entirely different things.</p>
        <p>“After all, I think I’ll like Wyther Grange,” said
            Emily.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xxiv" />CHAPTER XXIV<br />
                <span>A Different Kind of Happiness</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">July</span> 20th.</p>
        <p class="mb0 noi">“<span class="smcap">Dear Father</span>:</p>
        <p class="mt0">“I have been a fortnight at Wyther Grange and I have
            not written to you once. But I thought of you every
            day. I had to write to Aunt Laura and Ilse and Teddy
            and Cousin Jimmy and Perry and between times I am
            having such fun. The first night I was here I did not
            think I was going to be happy. But I am—only it’s a
            different kind from New Moon happiness.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Nancy and Caroline are very good to me and let
            me do exactly as I like. This is very agreeable. They
            are very sarcastic to each other. But I think they are
            a good bit like Ilse and me—they fight quite frequently<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_258">258</a></span>
            but love each other very hard between times. I am sure
            Caroline isn’t a witch but I would like to know what she
            thinks of when she is all alone by herself. Aunt Nancy
            is not pretty any longer but she is very <em>aristocratic looking</em>.
            She doesn’t walk much because of her roomatism,
            so she sits mostly in her back parlor and reads and knits
            lace or plays cards with Caroline. I talk to her a great
            deal because she says it amuses her and I have told her a
            great many things but I have never told her that I write
            poetry. If I did I know she would make me recite it to
            her and I feel she is not the right person to recite your
            poetry to. And I do not talk about you or Mother to
            her, though she tries to make me. I told her all about
            Lofty John and his bush and going to Father Cassidy.
            She chuckled over that and said she always liked to talk
            to the Catholic Priests because they were the only men
            in the world a woman could talk to for more than ten
            minutes without other women saying she was throwing
            herself at their heads.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Nancy says a great many things like that. She
            and Caroline talk a great deal to each other about things
            that happened in the Priest and Murray families. I
            like to sit and listen. They don’t stop just as things are
            getting interesting the way Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt
            Laura do. A good many things I don’t understand but
            I will remember them and will find out about them sometime.
            I have written descriptions of Aunt Nancy and
            Caroline in my Jimmy-book. I keep the book hid behind
            the wardrobe in my room because I found Caroline rummidging
            in my trunk one day. I must not call Aunt
            Nancy Great-Aunt. She says it makes her feel like
            Methoosaleh. She tells me all about the men who were
            in love with her. It seems to me they all behaved pretty
            much the same. I don’t think that was exciting but she
            says it was. She tells me about all the parties and dances
            they used to have here long ago. Wyther Grange is<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_259">259</a></span>
            bigger than New Moon and the furniture is much handsomer
            but it is harder to feel acquainted with it.</p>
        <p>“There are many interesting things in this house.
            I love to look at them. There is a Jakobite glass on a
            stand in the parlor. It was a glass <em>an old ansester</em> of the
            Priests had long ago in Scotland and it has a thistle and
            a rose on it and they used it to drink Prince Charlie’s
            health with and for <em>no other purpose</em>. It is a very <em>valewable
                airloom</em> and Aunt Nancy prizes it highly. And she
            has a pickled snake in a big glass jar in the china cabinet.
            It is hideous but fascinating. I shiver when I see it but
            yet I go to look at it every day. Something seems to drag
            me to it. Aunt Nancy has a bureau in her room with
            <em>glass knobs</em> and a vase shaped like a green fish sitting up
            on end and a Chinese draggon with a curly tail, and a
            case of sweet little stuffed humming birds and a sand-glass
            for boiling eggs by and a framed wreath made out
            of the hair of all the dead Priests and lots of old dagerrotipes.
            But the thing I like the best of all is a great
            silvery shining ball hanging from the lamp in the parlour.
            It reflects everything like a little fairy world. Aunt
            Nancy calls it a gazing-ball, and says that when she is
            dead I am to have it. I wish she hadn’t said that because
            I want the ball so much that I can’t help wondering when
            she will die and that makes me feel wicked. I am to
            have the chessy-cat door knocker and her gold earrings,
            too. These are Murray airlooms. Aunt Nancy says
            the Priest airlooms must go to the Priests. I will like
            the chessy-cat but I don’t want the earrings. I’d rather
            not have people notice my ears.
        </p>
        <p>“I have to sleep alone. I feel frightened but I think
            if I could get over being frightened I’d like it. I don’t
            mind the swallows now. It’s just being alone so far
            away from any one. But it is lovely to be able to stretch
            out your legs just as you like and not have anybody scold
            you for skwirming. And when I wake up in the night<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_260">260</a></span>
            and think of a splendid line of poetry (because the things
            that you think of like that always seem the best) I can
            get right out of bed and write it right down in my
            Jimmy-book. I couldn’t do that at home and then by
            morning I’d likely forget it. I thought of such a nice
            line last night. “Lilies lifted pearly chaluses (a chalus
            is a kind of cup only more poetical) where bees were
            drowned in sweetness” and I felt happy because I was
            sure they were two better lines than any I had composed
            yet.</p>
        <p>“I am allowed to go into the kitchen and help Caroline
            cook. Caroline is a good cook but sometimes she makes a
            mistake and this vexes Aunt Nancy because she likes nice
            things to eat. The other day Caroline made the barley
            soup far too thick and when Aunt Nancy looked at her
            plate she said “Lord, is this a dinner or a poltis?”
            Caroline said “It is good enough for a Priest and what
            is good enough for a Priest is good enough for a Murray,”
            and Aunt Nancy said “Woman, the Priests eat of the
            crumbs that fall from the Murrays’ tables,” and Caroline
            was so mad she cried. And Aunt Nancy said to me
            “Emily, never marry a Priest”—just like Old Kelly, when
            I have no notion of marrying one of them. I don’t like
            any of them I’ve seen very much but they seem to me a
            good deal like other people. Jim is the best of them but
            impident.</p>
        <p>“I like the Wyther Grange breakfasts better than the
            New Moon breakfasts. We have toast and bacon and
            marmalade—nicer than porridge.</p>
        <p>“Sunday is more amusing here than at New Moon but
            not so holy. Nice for a change. Aunt Nancy can’t go
            to church or knit lace so she and Caroline play cards all
            day but she says I must never do it—that she is just a bad
            example. I love to look at Aunt Nancy’s big parlor
            Bible because there are so many interesting things in it—pieces
            of dresses and hair and poetry and old tintipes and<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_261">261</a></span>
            accounts of deaths and weddings. I found a piece about
            my own birth and it gave me a queer feeling.</p>
        <p>“In the afternoon some of the Priests come to see Aunt
            Nancy and stay to supper. Leslie Priest always comes.
            He is Aunt Nancy’s faverite neffew, so Jim says. I
            think that is because he pays her compliments. But I
            saw him wink at Isaac Priest once when he paid her one.
            I don’t like him. He treats me as if I was a meer child.
            Aunt Nancy says terrible things to them all but they just
            laugh. When they go away Aunt Nancy makes fun of
            them to Caroline. Caroline doesn’t like it, because she
            is a Priest and so she and Aunt Nancy always quarrel
            Sunday evening and don’t speak again till Monday morning.</p>
        <p>“I can read all the books in Aunt Nancy’s bookcase
            except the row on the top shelf. I wonder why I can’t
            read them. Aunt Nancy said they were French novels
            but I just peeped into one and it was English. I wonder
            if Aunt Nancy tells lies.</p>
        <p>“The place I love best is down at bay shore. Some
            parts of the shore are very steep and there are such nice,
            woodsy, <em>unexpected</em> places all along it. I wander there
            and compose poetry. I miss Ilse and Teddy and Perry
            and Saucy Sal a great deal. I had a letter from Ilse today.
            She wrote me that they couldn’t do anything more
            about the Midsummer Night’s Dream till I got back. It
            is nice to feel so necessary.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Nancy doesn’t like Aunt Elizabeth. She called
            her a “tyrant” one day and then she said “Jimmy Murray
            was a very clever boy. Elizabeth Murray killed his intellect
            in her temper—and nothing was done to her. If
            she had killed his body she would have been a murderess.
            The other was worse, if you ask me.” I do not like Aunt
            Elizabeth at times myself but I felt, dear Father, that I
            must stand up for <em>my family</em> and I said “I do not want
            to hear such things said of my Aunt Elizabeth.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_262">262</a></span></p>
        <p>“And I just gave Aunt Nancy a <em>look</em>. She said “Well,
            Saucebox, my brother Archibald will never be dead as
            long as you’re alive. If you don’t want to hear things
            don’t hang around when Caroline and I are talking. I
            notice there are plenty of things you like to hear.”</p>
        <p>“This was sarcasm, dear Father, but still I feel Aunt
            Nancy likes me but perhaps she will not like me very long.
            Jim Priest says she is fikkle and never liked anyone, even
            her husband, very long. But after she has been sarcastic
            to me she always tells Caroline to give me a piece of
            pie so I don’t mind the sarcasm. She lets me have real
            tea, too. I like it. At New Moon Aunt Elizabeth won’t
            give me anything but cambric tea because it is best for
            my health. Aunt Nancy says the way to be healthy is
            to eat just what you want and never think about your
            stomach. But then she was never threttened with consumption.
            She says I needn’t be a bit frightened of dying
            of consumption because I have too much ginger in me.
            That is a comforting thought. The only time I don’t
            like Aunt Nancy is when she begins talking about the
            different parts of me and the effect they will have on the
            men. It makes me feel so silly.</p>
        <p>“I will write you oftener after this, dear Father. I
            feel I have been neglecting you.</p>
        <p>“P. S. I am afraid there are some mistakes in spelling
            in this letter. I forgot to bring my dictionary with me.</p>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">July 22.</span></p>
        <p>“Oh, dear Father, I am in a dreadful scrape. I don’t
            know what I am to do. Oh, Father, I have broken Aunt
            Nancy’s Jakobite glass. It seems to me like a dreadful
            dream.</p>
        <p>“I went into the parlor today to look at the pickled
            snake and just as I was turning away my sleeve caught
            the Jakobite glass and over it went on the harth and <em>shivered
                into fragments</em>. At first I rushed out and left them
            there but afterwards I went back and carefully gathered<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_263">263</a></span>
            them up and hid them in a box behind the sofa. Aunt
            Nancy never goes into the parlor now and Caroline not
            very often and perhaps they may not miss the glass until
            I go home. But it <em>haunts</em> me. I keep thinking of it all
            the time and I cannot enjoy anything. I know Aunt
            Nancy will be furious and never forgive me if she finds
            out. I could not sleep all night for worrying about it.
            Jim Priest came down to play with me today but he said
            there was no fun in me and went home. The Priests
            mostly say what they think. Of course there was no fun
            in me. How could there be? I wonder if it would do
            any good to pray about it. I don’t feel as if it would
            be right to pray because I am deceiving Aunt Nancy.</p>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">July 24.</span></p>
        <p>“Dear Father, this is a very strange world. Nothing
            ever turns out just like what you expect. Last night I
            couldn’t sleep again. I was so worried. I thought I was
            a coward, and doing an underhanded thing and not living
            up to my tradishuns. At last it got so bad I couldn’t
            stand it. I can bear it when other people have a bad
            opinion of me but it hurts too much when I have a bad
            opinion of myself. So I got out of bed and went right
            back through all those halls to the back parlor. Aunt
            Nancy was still there all alone playing Solitare. She said
            what on earth was I out of bed for at such an hour. I
            just said, short and quick to get the worst over, “I broke
            your Jakobite glass yesterday and hid the pieces behind
            the sofa.” Then I waited for the <em>storm to burst</em>. Aunt
            Nancy said “What a blessing. I’ve often wanted to
            smash it but never had the courage. All the Priest clan
            are waiting for me to die to get that glass and quarrel
            over it and I’m tickled to think none of them can have it
            now and yet can’t pick a fuss with me over smashing it.
            Get off to bed and get your beauty sleep.” I said “And
            aren’t you mad at all, Aunt Nancy?” “If it had been a
            Murray airloom I’d have torn up the turf” Aunt Nancy<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_264">264</a></span>
            said. “But I don’t care a hoot about the Priest things.”</p>
        <p>“So I went back to bed, dear Father, and felt very releeved,
            but not so heroyik.</p>
        <p>“I had a letter from Ilse today. She says Saucy Sal
            has had kittens at last. I feel that I ought to be home
            to see about them. Likely Aunt Elizabeth will have them
            all drowned before I get back. I had a letter from
            Teddy too, not much of a letter but all filled with dear
            little pictures of Ilse and Perry and the Tansy Patch and
            Lofty John’s bush. They made me feel homesick.</p>
        <p class="right2">“<span class="smcap">July 28.</span></p>
        <p>“Oh, Father dear, I have found out all about the mistery
            of Ilse’s mother. It is so terrible I can’t write it
            down even to you. I cannot believe it but Aunt Nancy
            says it is true. I did not think there could be such terrible
            things in the world. No, I can’t believe it and I
            won’t believe it no matter who says it is true. I <em>know</em>
            Ilse’s mother <em>couldn’t</em> have done anything like that.
            There must have been a fearful mistake somewhere. I
            am so unhappy and feel as if I could never be happy any
            more. Last night I wept on my pillow, like the heroins
            in Aunt Nancy’s books do.”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xxv" />CHAPTER XXV<br />
                <span>“She Couldn’t Have Done It”</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">G</span>REAT-AUNT NANCY and Caroline Priest were
            wont to colour their grey days with the remembered
            crimsons of old, long-past delights and merry-makings,
            but they went further than this and talked over any
            number of old family histories before Emily with a total
            disregard of her youth. Loves, births, deaths, scandals,
            tragedies—anything that came into their old heads. Nor<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_265">265</a></span>
            did they spare details. Aunt Nancy revelled in details.
            She forgot nothing, and sins and weaknesses that death
            had covered and time shown mercy to were ruthlessly
            dragged out and dissected by this ghoulish old lady.</p>
        <p>Emily was not quite certain whether she really liked
            it or not. It <em>was</em> fascinating—it fed some dramatic
            hunger in her—but it made her feel unhappy somehow,
            as if something very ugly were concealed in the darkness
            of the pit they opened before her innocent eyes. As
            Aunt Laura had said, her youth protected her to some
            extent, but it could not save her from a dreadful understanding
            of the pitiful story of Ilse’s mother on the afternoon
            when it seemed good to Aunt Nancy to resurrect
            that tale of anguish and shame.</p>
        <p>Emily was curled up on the sofa in the back parlour,
            reading <cite>The Scottish Chiefs</cite> because it was a breathlessly
            hot July afternoon—too hot to haunt the bay shore.
            Emily was feeling very happy. The Wind Woman was
            ruffling over the big maple grove behind the Grange,
            turning the leaves until every tree seemed to be covered
            with strange, pale, silvery blossoms; fragrances drifted
            in from the garden; the world was lovely; she had had
            a letter from Aunt Laura saying that one of Saucy Sal’s
            kittens had been saved for her. Emily had felt when
            Mike II died that she would never want another cat.
            But now she found she did. Everything suited her very
            well; she was so happy that she should have sacrificed
            her dearest possession to the jealous gods if she had
            known anything about the old pagan belief.</p>
        <p>Aunt Nancy was tired of playing solitaire. She pushed
            the cards away and took up her knitting.</p>
        <p>“Emily,” she said, “has your Aunt Laura any notion
            of marrying Dr. Burnley?”</p>
        <p>Emily, recalled thus abruptly from the field of Bannockburn,
            looked bored. Blair Water gossip had often
            asked or hinted this question; and now it met her in
            Priest Pond.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_266">266</a></span></p>
        <p>“No, I’m sure she hasn’t,” she said. “Why, Aunt
            Nancy, Dr. Burnley <em>hates</em> women.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Nancy chuckled.</p>
        <p>“Thought perhaps he’d got over that. It’s eleven
            years now since his wife ran away. Few men hold
            to one idea for anything like eleven years. But Allan
            Burnley always was stubborn in anything—love or hate.
            He still loves his wife—and that is why he hates her
            memory and all other women.”</p>
        <p>“I never heard the rights of that story,” said Caroline.
            “Who was his wife?”</p>
        <p>“Beatrice Mitchell—one of the Shrewsbury Mitchells.
            She was only eighteen when Allan married her. He was
            thirty-five. Emily, never you be fool enough to marry
            a man much older than yourself.”</p>
        <p>Emily said nothing. <cite>The Scottish Chiefs</cite> was forgotten.
            Her finger-tips were growing cold as they always
            did in excitement, her eyes turning black. She
            felt that she was on the verge of solving the mystery
            that had so long worried and puzzled her. She was desperately
            afraid that Aunt Nancy would branch off to
            something else.</p>
        <p>“I’ve heard she was a great beauty,” said Caroline.</p>
        <p>Aunt Nancy sniffed.</p>
        <p>“Depends on your taste in style. Oh, she was pretty—one
            of your golden-haired dolls. She had a little
            birthmark over her left eyebrow—just like a tiny red
            heart—I never could see anything but that mark when
            I looked at her. But her flatterers told her it was a
            beauty spot—‘the Ace of Hearts’ they called her. Allan
            was mad about her. She had been a flirt before her
            marriage. But I <em>will</em> say—for justice among women
            is a rare thing, Caroline—<em>you</em>, for instance, are an unjust
            old hag—that she didn’t flirt after marrying—openly,
            at least. She was a sly puss—always laughing and
            singing and dancing—no wife for Allan Burnley if you
            ask me. And he could have had Laura Murray. But<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_267">267</a></span>
            between a fool and a sensible woman did a man ever
            hesitate? The fool wins every time, Caroline. That’s
            why <em>you</em> never got a husband. You were too sensible.
            I got mine by pretending to be a fool. Emily, you remember
            that. You have brains—hide them. Your
            ankles will do more for you than your brains ever will.”</p>
        <p>“Never mind Emily’s ankles,” said Caroline, keen on
            a scandal hunt. “Go on about the Burnleys.”</p>
        <p>“Well, there was a cousin of hers—Leo Mitchell from
            Shrewsbury. You remember the Mitchells, don’t you,
            Caroline? This Leo was a handsome fellow—a sea-captain.
            He had been in love with Beatrice, so gossip
            ran. Some said Beatrice wanted him but that her people
            made her marry Allan Burnley because he was the better
            match. Who knows? Gossip lies nine times and tells
            a half truth the tenth. She pretended to be in love with
            Allan anyhow, and he believed it. When Leo came home
            from a voyage and found Beatrice married he took it
            coolly enough. But he was always over at Blair Water.
            Beatrice had plenty of excuses. Leo was her cousin—they
            had been brought up together—they were like
            brother and sister—she was so lonesome in Blair Water
            after living in a town—he had no home except with a
            brother. Allan took it all down—he was so infatuated
            with her she could have made him believe anything.
            She and Leo were always together there when Allan was
            away seeing his patients. Then came the night Leo’s
            vessel—<i>The Lady of Winds</i>—was to sail from Blair
            Harbour for South America. He went—and my lady
            Beatrice went with him.”</p>
        <p>A queer little strangled sound came from Emily’s
            corner. If Aunt Nancy or Caroline had looked at her
            they would have seen that the child was white as the
            dead, with wide, horror-filled eyes. But they did not
            look. They knitted and gossiped on, enjoying themselves
            hugely.</p>
        <p>“How did the doctor take it?” asked Caroline.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_268">268</a></span></p>
        <p>“Take it—take it—nobody knows. Everybody knows
            what kind of a man he’s been ever since, though. He
            came home that night at dusk. The baby was asleep in
            its crib and the servant girl was watching it. She told
            Allan that Mrs. Burnley had gone to the harbour with her
            cousin for a good-bye walk and would be back at ten.
            Allan waited for her easily enough—he never doubted
            her—but she didn’t come back. She had never intended
            to come back. In the morning <i>The Lady of Winds</i> was
            gone—had sailed out of the harbour at dark the night before.
            Beatrice had gone on board with him—that was
            all anybody knew. Allan Burnley <em>said</em> nothing, beyond
            forbidding her name ever to be mentioned in his hearing
            again. But <i>The Lady of Winds</i> was lost with all on
            board off Hatteras and that was the end of that elopement,
            and the end of Beatrice with her beauty and her
            laughter and her Ace of Hearts.”</p>
        <p>“But not the end of the shame and wretchedness she
            brought to her home,” said Caroline shrewishly. “I’d
            tar and feather such a woman.”</p>
        <p>“Nonsense—if a man can’t look after his wife—if he
            blinds his own eyes— Mercy on us, child, what is the
            matter?”</p>
        <p>For Emily was standing up, holding out her hands as
            if pushing some loathly thing from her.</p>
        <p>“I don’t believe it,” she cried, in a high, unnatural
            voice. “I don’t believe Ilse’s mother did <em>that</em>. She
            didn’t—she couldn’t have—not Ilse’s <em>mother</em>.”</p>
        <p>“Catch her, Caroline!” cried Aunt Nancy.</p>
        <p>But Emily, though the back parlour had whirled about
            her for a second, had recovered herself.</p>
        <p>“Don’t touch me!” she cried passionately. “Don’t
            touch me! You—you—you <em>liked</em> hearing that story!”</p>
        <p>She rushed out of the room. Aunt Nancy looked
            ashamed for a moment. For the first time it occurred
            to her that her scandal-loving old tongue had done a
            black thing. Then she shrugged her shoulders.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_269">269</a></span></p>
        <p>“She can’t go through life in cotton wool. Might
            as well learn spades are spades now as ever. I would
            have thought she’d have heard it all long ago if Blair
            Water gossip is what it used to be. If she goes home
            and tells this I’ll have the indignant virgins of New
            Moon coming down on me in holy horror as a corrupter
            of youth. Caroline, don’t you ask me to tell you any
            more family horrors before my niece, you scandalous
            old woman. At your age! I’m surprised at you!”</p>
        <p>Aunt Nancy and Caroline returned to their knitting
            and their spicy reminiscences, and upstairs in the Pink
            Room Emily lay face downwards on her bed and cried
            for hours. It was so horrible—Ilse’s mother had run
            away and left her little baby. To Emily that was the awful
            thing—the strange, cruel, heartless thing that Ilse’s
            mother had done. She could not bring herself to believe
            it—there was some mistake somewhere—there <em>was</em>.</p>
        <p>“Perhaps she was kidnapped,” said Emily, trying desperately
            to explain it. “She just went on board to look
            around—and he weighed anchor and carried her off.
            She <em>couldn’t</em> have gone away of her own accord and left
            her dear little baby.”</p>
        <p>The story haunted Emily in good earnest. She could
            think of nothing else for days. It took possession of
            her and worried and gnawed at her with an almost physical
            pain. She dreaded going back to New Moon and
            meeting Ilse with this consciousness of a dark secret
            which she must hide from her. Ilse knew nothing. She
            had asked Ilse once where her mother was buried and
            Ilse had said, “Oh, I don’t know. At Shrewsbury, I
            guess—that’s where all the Mitchells are buried.”</p>
        <p>Emily wrung her slim hands together. She was as
            sensitive to ugliness and pain as she was to beauty and
            pleasure, and this thing was both hideous and agonizing.
            Yet she could not keep from thinking about it, day and
            night. Life at Wyther Grange suddenly went stale.
            Aunt Nancy and Caroline all at once gave up talking<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_270">270</a></span>
            family history, even harmless history, before her. And
            as it was painful repression for them, they did not encourage
            her hanging round. Emily began to feel that
            they were glad when she was out of hearing, so she kept
            away and spent most of her days wandering on the bay
            shore. She could not compose any poetry—she could
            not write in her Jimmy-book—she could not even write
            to her father. Something seemed to hang between her
            and her old delights. There was a drop of poison in
            every cup. Even the filmy shadows on the great bay,
            the charm of its fir-hung cliffs and its little purple islets
            that looked like outposts of fairyland, could not bring
            to her the old “fine, careless rapture.” She was afraid
            she could never be happy again—so intense had been
            her reaction to her first revelation of the world’s sin
            and sorrow. And under it all, persisted the same incredulity—Ilse’s
            mother <em>couldn’t</em> have done it—and the
            same helpless longing to prove she couldn’t have done it.
            But how could it be proved? It couldn’t. She had
            solved one “mystery” but she had stumbled into a darker
            one—the reason why Beatrice Burnley had never come
            back on that summer twilight of long ago. For, all the
            evidence of facts to the contrary <a id="notwithstanding" /><ins
                title="Original has 'nothwithstanding'">notwithstanding</ins>, Emily
            persisted in her secret belief that whatever the reason
            <em>was</em>, it was <em>not</em> that she had gone away in <i>The Lady of
                Winds</i> when that doomed ship sailed out into the starlit
            wonder of the gulf beyond Blair Harbour.
        </p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xxvi" />CHAPTER XXVI<br />
                <span>On the Bay Shore</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap"><span class="dropcap2">“</span>I</span> WONDER,”
            thought Emily, “how much longer I
            have to live.”</p>
        <p>She had prowled that evening further down the bay
            shore than she had ever gone before. It was a warm,
            windy evening; the air was resinous and sweet; the bay a<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_271">271</a></span>
            misty turquoise. That part of the shore whereon she
            found herself seemed as lonely and virgin as if no human
            foot had ever trodden it, save for a tiny, tricksy path,
            slender as red thread and bordered by great, green, velvety
            sheets of moss, that wound in and out of the big
            firs and scrub spruces. The banks grew steeper and
            rockier as she went on and finally the little path vanished
            altogether in a plot of bracken. Emily was just turning
            to go back when she caught sight of a magnificent spray
            of farewell summer, growing far out on the edge of the
            bank. She must get it—she had never seen farewell-summers
            of so dark and rich a purple. She stepped out
            to reach them—the treacherous mossy soil gave way under
            her feet and slid down the steep slope. Emily made
            a frantic attempt to scramble back but the harder she
            tried, the faster went the landslide, carrying her with
            it. In a moment it would pass the slope and go over
            the brink of the rocks, straight to the boulder-strewn
            shore thirty feet below. Emily had one dreadful moment
            of terror and despair; and then she found that the clump
            of mossy earth which had broken away had held on a
            narrow ledge of rock, half hanging over it; and she was
            lying on the clump. It seemed to her that the slightest
            movement on her part would send it over, straight to
            the cruel boulders underneath.</p>
        <p>She lay very still, trying to think—trying not to be
            afraid. She was far, far away from any house—nobody
            could hear her if she screamed. And she did not even
            dare to scream lest the motion of her body dislodge the
            fragment on which she lay. How long could she lie
            there motionless? Night was coming on. Aunt Nancy
            would grow anxious when the dark fell and would send
            Caroline to look for her. But Caroline would never
            find her here. Nobody would ever think of looking
            here for her, so far away from the Grange, in the spruce
            barrens of the Lower Bay. To lie there alone all night—to
            fancy the earth was slipping over—waiting for<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_272">272</a></span>
            help that would never come—Emily could hardly restrain
            a shudder that might have been ruinous.</p>
        <p>She had faced death once before, or thought she had,
            on the night when Lofty John had told her she had eaten
            a poisoned apple—but this was even harder. To die here,
            all alone, far away from home! They might never know
            what had become of her—never find her. The crows or
            the gulls would pick her eyes out. She dramatized the
            thing so vividly that she almost screamed with the horror
            of it. She would just disappear from the world as Ilse’s
            mother had disappeared.</p>
        <p><em>What had become of Ilse’s mother?</em> Even in her own
            desperate plight Emily asked herself that question. And
            she would never see dear New Moon again and Teddy
            and the dairy and the Tansy Patch and Lofty John’s
            bush and the mossy old sundial and her precious little
            heap of manuscripts on the sofa shelf in the garret.</p>
        <p>“I must be very brave and patient,” she thought. “My
            only chance is to lie still. And I can pray in my mind—I’m
            sure God can hear thoughts as well as words. It
            is nice to think He can hear me if nobody else can.
            O God—Father’s God—please work a miracle and save
            my life, because I don’t think I’m fit to die yet. Excuse
            my not being on my knees—You can see I can’t move.
            And if I die please don’t let Aunt Elizabeth find my letter-bills
            ever. Please let Aunt Laura find them. And
            please don’t let Caroline move out the wardrobe when she
            house-cleans because then she would find my Jimmy-book
            and read what I wrote about her. Please forgive all my
            sins, especially not being grateful enough and cutting a
            bang, and please don’t let Father be very far away.
            Amen.”</p>
        <p>Then, characteristically she thought of a postscript.
            “And oh, <em>please</em> let somebody find out that Ilse’s mother
            didn’t do <em>that</em>.”</p>
        <p>She lay very still. The light on the water began to
            turn warm gold and rose. A great pine on a bluff in<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_273">273</a></span>
            front of her overflowed in a crest of dark boughs against
            the amber splendour behind it—a part of the beauty of
            the beautiful world that was slipping away from her.
            The chill of the evening gulf breeze began to creep over
            her. Once a bit of earth broke off at her side and went
            down—Emily heard the thud of the little pebbles in it
            on the boulders below. The portion upon which one of
            her legs lay was quite loose and pendent also. She knew
            it might break off, too, at any moment. It would be very
            dreadful to be there when it got dark. She could see the
            big spray of farewell-summer that had lured her to her
            doom, waving unplucked above her, wonderfully purple
            and lovely.</p>
        <p>Then, beside it, she saw a man’s face looking down
            at her!</p>
        <p>She heard him say, “My God!” softly to himself.
            She saw that he was slight and that one shoulder was
            a trifle higher than the other. This must be Dean Priest—Jarback
            Priest. Emily dared not call to him. She
            lay still and her great, grey-purple eyes said, “Save me.”</p>
        <p>“How can I help you?” said Dean Priest hoarsely, as
            if to himself. “I cannot reach you—and it looks as if
            the slightest touch or jar would send that broken earth
            over the brink. I must go for a rope—and to leave you
            here alone—like this. Can you wait, child?”</p>
        <p>“Yes,” breathed Emily. She smiled at him to encourage
            him—the little soft smile that began at the corners
            of her mouth and spread over her face. Dean Priest
            never forgot that smile—and the steadfast child-eyes
            looking out through it from the little face that seemed
            so perilously near the brink.</p>
        <p>“I’ll be as quick as I can,” he said. “I can’t go very
            fast—I’m a bit lame, you see. But don’t be frightened—I’ll
            save you. I’ll leave my dog to keep you company.
            Here, Tweed.”</p>
        <p>He whistled—a great, tawny-gold dog came in sight.</p>
        <p>“Sit right there, Tweed, till I come back. Don’t stir<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_274">274</a></span>
            a paw—don’t wag a tail—talk to her only with your
            eyes.”</p>
        <p>Tweed sat down obediently and Dean Priest disappeared.</p>
        <p>Emily lay there and dramatized the whole incident for
            her Jimmy-book. She was a little frightened still, but
            not too frightened to see herself writing it all out the
            next day. It would be quite a thrilling bit.</p>
        <p>She liked to know the big dog was there. She was
            not so learned in lore of dogs as in lore of cats. But
            he looked very human and trusty watching her with
            great kindly eyes. A grey kitten was an adorable thing—but
            a grey kitten would not have sat there and encouraged
            her. “I believe,” thought Emily, “that a dog
            is better than a cat when you’re in trouble.”</p>
        <p>It was half an hour before Dean Priest returned.</p>
        <p>“Thank God you haven’t gone over,” he muttered.
            “I hadn’t to go as far as I feared—I found a rope in an
            empty boat up-shore and took it. And now—if I drop
            the rope down to you, are you strong enough to hold
            it while the earth goes and then hang on while I pull you
            up?”</p>
        <p>“I’ll try,” said Emily.</p>
        <p>Dean Priest knotted a loop at the end and slid it down
            to her. Then he wound the rope around the trunk of
            a heavy fir.</p>
        <p>“Now,” he said.</p>
        <p>Emily said inwardly, “Dear God, <em>please</em>—” and caught
            the swaying loop. The next moment the full weight of
            her body swung from it, for at her first movement the
            broken soil beneath her slipped down—slipped over.
            Dean Priest sickened and shivered. Could she cling to
            the rope while he drew her up?</p>
        <p>Then he saw she had got a little knee-hold on the
            narrow shelf. Carefully he drew on the rope. Emily,
            full of pluck, helped him by digging her toes into the
            crumbling bank. In a moment she was within his reach.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_275">275</a></span>
            He grasped her arms and pulled her up beside him into
            safety. As he lifted her past the farewell-summer Emily
            reached out her hand and broke off the spray.</p>
        <p>“I’ve got it, anyhow,” she said jubilantly. Then she
            remembered her manners. “I’m much obliged to you.
            You saved my life. And—and—I think I’ll sit down a
            moment. My legs feel funny and trembly.”</p>
        <p>Emily sat down, all at once more shaky than she had
            been through all the danger. Dean Priest leaned against
            the gnarled old fir. He seemed “trembly” too. He wiped
            his forehead with his handkerchief. Emily looked curiously
            at him. She had learned a good deal about him
            from Aunt Nancy’s casual remarks—not always good-natured
            remarks, for Aunt Nancy did not wholly like
            him, it seemed. She always called him “Jarback” rather
            contemptuously, while Caroline scrupulously called him
            Dean. Emily knew he had been to college, that he was
            thirty-six years old—which to Emily seemed a venerable
            age—and well-off; that he had a malformed shoulder
            and limped slightly; that he cared for nothing save
            books nor ever had; that he lived with an older brother
            and travelled a great deal; and that the whole Priest
            clan stood somewhat in awe of his ironic tongue. Aunt
            Nancy had called him a “cynic.” Emily did not know
            what a cynic was but it sounded interesting. She looked
            him over carefully and saw that he had delicate, pale
            features and tawny-brown hair. His lips were thin and
            sensitive, with a whimsical curve. She liked his mouth.
            Had she been older she would have known why—because
            it connoted strength and tenderness and humour.</p>
        <p>In spite of his twisted shoulder there was about him a
            certain aloof dignity of presence which was characteristic
            of many of the Priests and which was often mistaken
            for pride. The green Priest eyes, that were peering
            and uncanny in Caroline’s face and impudent in Jim
            Priest’s, were remarkably dreamy and attractive in
            his.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_276">276</a></span></p>
        <p>“Well, do you think me handsome?” he said, sitting
            down on another stone and smiling at her. His voice
            was beautiful—musical and caressing.</p>
        <p>Emily blushed. She knew staring was not etiquette,
            and she did not think him at all handsome, so she was
            very thankful that he did not press his question, but
            asked another.</p>
        <p>“Do you know who your knightly rescuer is?”</p>
        <p>“I think you must be Jar—Mr. Dean Priest.” Emily
            flushed again with vexation. She had come so near to
            making another terrible hole in her manners.</p>
        <p>“Yes, Jarback Priest. You needn’t mind the nickname.
            I’ve heard it often enough. It’s a Priest idea of
            humour.” He laughed rather unpleasantly. “The reason
            for it is obvious enough, isn’t it? I never got anything
            else at school. How came you to slide over that
            cliff?”</p>
        <p>“I wanted this,” said Emily, waving her farewell-summer.</p>
        <p>“And you have it! Do you always get what you go
            after, even with death slipping a thin wedge between?
            I think you’re born lucky. I see the signs. If that
            big aster lured you into danger it saved you as well, for
            it was through stepping over to investigate it that I
            saw you. Its size and colour caught my eye. Otherwise
            I should have gone on and you—what would have
            become of you? Whom do you belong to that you are
            let risk your life on these dangerous banks? What
            is your name—if you have a name! I begin to doubt
            you—I see you have pointed ears. Have I been tricked
            into meddling with fairies, and will I discover presently
            that twenty years have passed and that I am an old man
            long since lost to the living world with nothing but the
            skeleton of my dog for company?”</p>
        <p>“I am Emily Byrd Starr of New Moon,” said Emily,
            rather coldly. She was beginning to be sensitive about
            her ears. Father Cassidy had remarked on them—and<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_277">277</a></span>
            now Jarback Priest. Was there really something uncanny
            about them?</p>
        <p>And yet there was a flavour about the said Jarback that
            she liked—liked decidedly. Emily never was long in
            doubt about any one she met. In a few minutes she
            always knew whether she liked, disliked, or was indifferent
            to them. She had a queer feeling that she had known
            Jarback Priest for years—perhaps because it had seemed
            so long when she was lying on that crumbling earth
            waiting for him to return. He was not handsome but
            she liked that lean, clever face of his with its magnetic
            green eyes.</p>
        <p>“So you’re the young lady visitor at the Grange!” said
            Dean Priest, in some astonishment. “Then my dear
            Aunt Nancy should look after you better—my <em>very</em> dear
            Aunt Nancy.”</p>
        <p>“You don’t like Aunt Nancy, I see,” said Emily coolly.</p>
        <p>“What is the use of liking a lady who won’t like me?
            You have probably discovered by this time that my Lady
            Aunt detests me.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, I don’t think it’s as bad as that,” said Emily.
            “She must have some good opinions about you—she says
            you’re the only Priest who will ever go to heaven.”</p>
        <p>“She doesn’t mean that as a compliment, whatever you
            in your innocence believe it to be. And you are Douglas
            Starr’s daughter? I knew your father. We were boys
            together at Queen’s Academy—we drifted apart after
            we left it—he went into journalism, I to McGill. But he
            was the only friend I had at school—the only boy who
            would bother himself about Jarback Priest, who was lame
            and hunchbacked and couldn’t play football or hockey.
            Emily Byrd Starr—Starr should be your first name.
            You look like a star—you have a radiant sort of personality
            shining through you—your proper habitat should be
            the evening sky just after sunset—or the morning sky
            just before sunrise. Yes. You’d be more at home in
            the morning sky. I think I shall call you Star.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_278">278</a></span></p>
        <p>“Do you mean that you think me pretty?” asked Emily
            directly.</p>
        <p>“Why, it hadn’t occurred to me to wonder whether you
            were pretty or not. Do you think a star should be
            pretty?”</p>
        <p>Emily reflected.</p>
        <p>“No,” she said finally, “the word doesn’t suit a star.”</p>
        <p>“I perceive you are an artist in words. Of course it
            doesn’t. Stars are prismatic—palpitating—elusive. It
            is not often we find one made flesh and blood. I think
            I’ll wait for you.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, I’m ready to go now,” said Emily, standing up.</p>
        <p>“H’m. That wasn’t what I meant. Never mind.
            Come along, Star—if you don’t mind walking a bit
            slowly. I’ll take you back from the wilderness at least—I
            don’t know that I’ll venture to Wyther Grange to-night.
            I don’t want Aunt Nancy to take the edge off <em>you</em>. And
            so you don’t think me handsome?”</p>
        <p>“I didn’t say so,” cried Emily.</p>
        <p>“Not in words. But I can read your thoughts, Star—it
            won’t ever do to think anything you don’t want me to
            know. The gods gave me that gift—when they kept
            back everything else I wanted. You don’t think me
            handsome but you think me nice. Do you think you are
            pretty yourself?”</p>
        <p>“A little—since Aunt Nancy lets me wear my bang,”
            said Emily frankly.</p>
        <p>Jarback Priest made a grimace.</p>
        <p>“Don’t call it by such a name. It’s a worse name even
            than bustle. Bangs and bustles—they hurt me. I like
            that black wave breaking on your white brows—but don’t
            call it a bang—ever again.”</p>
        <p>“It <em>is</em> a very ugly word. I never use it in my poetry,
            of course.”</p>
        <p>Whereby Dean Priest discovered that Emily wrote
            poetry. He also discovered pretty nearly everything else
            about her in that charming walk back to Priest Pond in<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_279">279</a></span>
            the fir-scented dusk, with Tweed walking between them,
            his nose touching his master’s hand softly every now and
            then, while the robins in the trees above them whistled
            blithely in the afterlight.</p>
        <p>With nine out of ten people Emily was secretive and
            reserved, but Dean Priest was sealed of her tribe and she
            divined it instantly. He had a right to the inner sanctuary
            and she yielded it unquestioningly. She talked to
            him freely.</p>
        <p>Besides, she felt <em>alive</em> again—she felt the wonderful
            thrill of living again, after that dreadful space when she
            had seemed to hang between life and death. She felt,
            as she wrote to her father afterwards, “as if a little bird
            was singing in my heart.” And oh, how good the green
            sod felt under her feet!</p>
        <p>She told him all about herself and her doings and beings.
            Only one thing she did not tell him—her worry
            over Ilse’s mother. <em>That</em> she could not speak of to any
            one. Aunt Nancy need not have been frightened that
            she would carry tales to New Moon.</p>
        <p>“I wrote a whole poem yesterday when it rained and
            I couldn’t get out,” she said. “It began,</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">I sit by the western window</div>
                    <div class="line">That looks on Malvern Bay—”</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>“Am I not to hear the whole of it?” asked Dean, who
            knew perfectly well that Emily was hoping that he would
            ask it.</p>
        <p>Emily delightedly repeated the whole poem. When
            she came to the two lines she liked best in it,</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">Perhaps in those wooded islands</div>
                    <div class="line">That gem the proud bay’s breast—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">she looked up sidewise at him to see if he admired them.
            But he was walking with eyes cast down and an absent
            expression on his face. She felt a little disappointed.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_280">280</a></span></p>
        <p>“H’m,” he said when she had finished. “You’re
            twelve, didn’t you say? When you’re ten years older
            I shouldn’t wonder—but let’s not think of it.”</p>
        <p>“Father Cassidy told me to keep on,” cried Emily.</p>
        <p>“There was no need of it. You <em>would</em> keep on anyhow—you
            have the itch for writing born in you. It’s
            quite incurable. What are you going to do with it?”</p>
        <p>“I think I shall be either a great poetess or a distinguished
            novelist,” said Emily reflectively.</p>
        <p>“Having only to choose,” remarked Dean dryly.
            “Better be a novelist—I hear it pays better.”</p>
        <p>“What worries me about writing novels,” confided
            Emily, “is the love talk in them. I’m sure I’ll never be
            able to write it. I’ve tried,” she concluded candidly,
            “and I can’t think of <em>anything</em> to say.”</p>
        <p>“Don’t worry about that. <em>I’ll</em> teach you some day,”
            said Dean.</p>
        <p>“Will you—will you really?” Emily was very eager.
            “I’ll be so obliged if you will. I <em>think</em> I could manage
            <em>everything</em> else very nicely.”
        </p>
        <p>“It’s a bargain then—don’t forget it. And don’t go
            looking for another teacher, mind. What do you find
            to do at the Grange besides writing poetry? Are you
            never lonesome with only those two old survivals?”</p>
        <p>“No. I enjoy my own company,” said Emily gravely.</p>
        <p>“You would. Stars are said to dwell apart, anyhow,
            sufficient unto themselves—ensphered in their own light.
            Do you really like Aunt Nancy?”</p>
        <p>“Yes, indeed. She is very kind to me. She doesn’t
            make me wear sunbonnets and she lets me go barefooted
            in the forenoons. But I have to wear my buttoned boots
            in the afternoons, and I hate buttoned boots.”</p>
        <p>“Naturally. You should be shod with sandals of
            moonshine and wear a scarf of sea-mist with a few fireflies
            caught in it over your hair. Star, you don’t look
            like your father, but you suggest him in several ways.
            Do you look like your mother? I never saw her.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_281">281</a></span></p>
        <p>All at once Emily smiled demurely. A real sense of
            humour was born in her at that moment. Never again
            was she to feel quite so unmixedly tragic over anything.</p>
        <p>“No,” she said, “it’s only my eyelashes and smile
            that are like Mother’s. But I’ve got Father’s forehead,
            and Grandma Starr’s hair and eyes, and Great-Uncle
            George’s nose, and Aunt Nancy’s hands, and Cousin Susan’s
            elbows, and Great-great-Grandmother Murray’s
            ankles, and Grandfather Murray’s eyebrows.”</p>
        <p>Dean Priest laughed.</p>
        <p>“A rag-bag—as we all are,” he said. “But your soul
            is your own, and fire-new, I’ll swear to that.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, I’m so glad I like you,” said Emily impulsively.
            “It would be <em>hateful</em> to think any one I didn’t like had
            saved my life. I don’t mind <em>your</em> saving it a bit.”</p>
        <p>“That’s good. Because you see your life belongs to
            me henceforth. Since I saved it it’s mine. Never forget
            that.”</p>
        <p>Emily felt an odd sensation of rebellion. She didn’t
            fancy the idea of her life belonging to anybody but herself—not
            even to anybody she liked as much as she liked
            Dean Priest. Dean, watching her, saw it and smiled his
            whimsical smile that always seemed to have so much more
            in it than mere smiling.</p>
        <p>“That doesn’t quite suit you? Ah, you see one pays a
            penalty when one reaches out for something beyond the
            ordinary. One pays for it in bondage of some kind or
            other. Take your wonderful aster home and keep it as
            long as you can. It has cost you your freedom.”</p>
        <p>He was laughing—he was only joking, of course—yet
            Emily felt as if a cobweb fetter had been flung round her.
            Yielding to a sudden impulse she flung the big aster on
            the ground and set her foot on it.</p>
        <p>Dean Priest looked on amusedly. His strange eyes
            were very kindly as he met hers.</p>
        <p>“You rare thing—you vivid thing—you starry thing!
            We are going to be good friends—we <em>are</em> good friends.<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_282">282</a></span>
            I’m coming up to Wyther Grange to-morrow to see those
            descriptions you’ve written of Caroline and my venerable
            Aunt in your Jimmy-book. I feel sure they’re delicious.
            Here’s your path—don’t go roaming again so far from
            civilization. Good-night, my Star of the Morning.”</p>
        <p>He stood at the crossroad and watched her out of sight.</p>
        <p>“What a child!” he muttered. “I’ll never forget her
            eyes as she lay there on the edge of death—the dauntless
            little soul—and I’ve never seen a creature who seemed so
            full of sheer joy in existence. She is Douglas Starr’s
            child—<em>he</em> never called me Jarback.”</p>
        <p>He stooped and picked up the broken aster. Emily’s
            heel had met it squarely and it was badly crushed. But
            he put it away that night between the leaves of an old
            volume of <cite>Jane Eyre</cite>, where he had marked a verse—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">All glorious rose upon my sight</div>
                    <div class="line">That child of shower and gleam.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xxvii" />CHAPTER XXVII<br />
                <span>The Vow of Emily</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">I</span>N Dean Priest Emily found, for the first time since
            her father had died, a companion who could fully
            sympathize. She was always at her best with him, with
            a delightful feeling of being understood. To love is easy
            and therefore common—but to <em>understand</em>—how rare it
            is! They roamed wonderlands of fancy together in the
            magic August days that followed upon Emily’s adventure
            on the bay shore, talked together of exquisite, immortal
            things, and were at home with “nature’s old felicities” of
            which Wordsworth so happily speaks.</p>
        <p>Emily showed him all the poetry and “descriptions” in
            her “Jimmy-book” and he read them gravely, and, exactly<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_283">283</a></span>
            as Father had done, made little criticisms that did not
            hurt her because she knew they were just. As for Dean
            Priest, a certain secret well-spring of fancy that had long
            seemed dry bubbled up in him sparklingly again.</p>
        <p>“You make me believe in fairies, whether I will or no,”
            he told her, “and that means youth. As long as you believe
            in fairies you can’t grow old.”</p>
        <p>“But I can’t believe in fairies myself,” protested Emily
            sorrowfully. “I wish I could.”</p>
        <p>“But <em>you</em> are a fairy yourself—or you wouldn’t be able
            to find fairyland. You can’t buy a ticket there, you
            know. Either the fairies themselves give you your passport
            at your christening—or they don’t. That is all there
            is to it.”</p>
        <p>“Isn’t ‘Fairyland’ the <em>loveliest</em> word?” said Emily
            dreamily.</p>
        <p>“Because it means everything the human heart desires,”
            said Dean.</p>
        <p>When he talked to her Emily felt as if she were looking
            into some enchanted mirror where her own dreams
            and secret hopes were reflected back to her with added
            charm. If Dean Priest were a cynic he showed no cynicism
            to Emily. But in her company he was not a cynic;
            he had shed his years and became a boy again with a
            boy’s untainted visions. She loved him for the world he
            opened to her view.</p>
        <p>There was such fun in him, too,—such sly, surprising
            fun. He told her jokes—he made her laugh. He told
            her strange old tales of forgotten gods who were very
            beautiful—of court festivals and the bridals of kings.
            He seemed to have the history of the whole world at his
            fingers’ ends. He described things to her in unforgettable
            phrases as they walked by the bay shore or sat in
            the overgrown, shadowy old garden of Wyther Grange.
            When he spoke of Athens as “the City of the Violet
            Crown” Emily realized afresh what magic is made when
            the right words are wedded; and she loved to think of<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_284">284</a></span>
            Rome as “the City of the Seven Hills.” Dean had been
            in Rome and Athens—and almost everywhere else.</p>
        <p>“I didn’t know any one ever talked as you do except in
            books,” she told him.</p>
        <p>Dean laughed—with a little note of bitterness that was
            so often present in his laughter—though less often with
            Emily than with other people. It was really his laughter
            that had won Dean his reputation for cynicism. People
            so often felt that he was laughing <em>at</em> them instead of
            <em>with</em> them.
        </p>
        <p>“I’ve had only books for companions most of my life,”
            he said. “Is it any wonder I talk like them?”</p>
        <p>“I’m sure I’ll like studying history after this,” said
            Emily; “except Canadian History. I’ll never like <em>it</em>—it’s
            so dull. Not just at the first, when we belonged to
            France and there was plenty of fighting, but after that
            it’s nothing but politics.”</p>
        <p>“The happiest countries, like the happiest women, have
            no history,” said Dean.</p>
        <p>“I hope <em>I’ll</em> have a history,” cried Emily. “I want a
            <em>thrilling</em> career.”
        </p>
        <p>“We all do, foolish one. Do you know what makes
            history? Pain—and shame—and rebellion—and bloodshed
            and heartache. Star, ask yourself how many hearts
            ached—and broke—to make those crimson and purple
            pages in history that you find so enthralling. I told you
            the story of Leonidas and his Spartans the other day.
            They had mothers, sisters and sweethearts. If they
            could have fought a bloodless battle at the polls wouldn’t
            it have been better—if not so dramatic.”</p>
        <p>“I—can’t—<em>feel</em>—that way,” said Emily confusedly.
            She was not old enough to think or say, as she would
            say ten years later, “The heroes of Thermopylæ have
            been an inspiration to humanity for centuries. What
            squabble around a ballot-box will ever be that?”</p>
        <p>“And, like all female creatures, you form your opinions
            by your feelings. Well, hope for your thrilling<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_285">285</a></span>
            career—but remember that if there is to be drama in
            your life <em>somebody</em> must pay the piper in the coin of
            suffering. If not you—then some one else.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, no, I wouldn’t like <em>that</em>.”</p>
        <p>“Then be content with fewer thrills. What about
            your tumble over the bank down there? That came near
            being a tragedy. What if I hadn’t found you?”</p>
        <p>“But you <em>did</em> find me,” cried Emily. “I like near escapes—after
            they’re over,” she added. “If everybody
            had always been happy there’d be nothing to read about.”</p>
        <p>Tweed made a third in their rambles and Emily grew
            very fond of him, without losing any of her loyalty
            to the pussy folk.</p>
        <p>“I like cats with one part of my mind and dogs with
            another part,” she said.</p>
        <p>“I like cats but I never keep one,” Dean said.
            “They’re too exacting—they ask too much. Dogs want
            only love but cats demand worship. They have never
            got over the Bubastis habit of godship.”</p>
        <p>Emily understood this—he had told her all about old
            Egypt and the goddess Pasht—but she did not quite
            agree with him.</p>
        <p>“Kittens don’t want to be worshipped,” she said.
            “They just want to be cuddled.”</p>
        <p>“By their priestesses—yes. If you had been born on
            the banks of the Nile five thousand years ago, Emily,
            you would have been a priestess of Pasht—an adorable,
            slim, brown creature with a fillet of gold around your
            black hair and bands of silver on those ankles Aunt Nancy
            admires, with dozens of sacred little godlings frisking
            around you under the palms of the temple courts.”</p>
        <p>“Oh,” gasped Emily rapturously, “that gave me <em>the
                flash</em>. And,” she added wonderingly, “just for a moment
            it made me <em>homesick</em>, too. Why?”</p>
        <p>“Why? Because I haven’t a doubt you <em>were</em> just
            such a priestess in a former incarnation and my words
            reminded your soul of it. Do you believe in the doctrine<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_286">286</a></span>
            of the transmigration of souls, Star? But of course
            not—brought up by the true-blue Calvinists of New
            Moon.”</p>
        <p>“What does it mean?” asked Emily, and when Dean
            explained it to her she thought it a very delightful belief
            but was quite sure Aunt Elizabeth would not approve
            of it.</p>
        <p>“So I won’t believe it—yet,” she said gravely.</p>
        <p>Then it all came to an end quite suddenly. It had
            been taken for granted by all concerned that Emily was
            to stay at Wyther Grange until the end of August. But
            in mid-August Aunt Nancy said suddenly to her one
            day,</p>
        <p>“Go home, Emily. I’m tired of you. I like you very
            well—you’re not stupid and you’re passably pretty and
            you’ve behaved exceedingly well—tell Elizabeth you do
            the Murrays credit—but I’m tired of you. Go home.”</p>
        <p>Emily’s feelings were mixed. It hurt her to be told
            Aunt Nancy was tired of her—it would hurt any one.
            It rankled in her for several days until she thought of a
            sharp answer she might have made Aunt Nancy and
            wrote it down in her Jimmy-book. She felt quite as
            relieved then as if she had really said it.</p>
        <p>And she was sorry to leave Wyther Grange; she had
            grown to love the old beautiful house, with its flavour
            of hidden secrets—a flavour that was wholly a trick of
            its architecture, for there had never been anything in it
            but the simple tale of births and deaths and marriages
            and everyday living that most houses have. She was
            sorry to leave the bay shore and the quaint garden and
            the gazing-ball and the chessy-cat and the Pink Room
            bed of freedom; and most of all she was sorry to leave
            Dean Priest. But on the other hand it was delightful
            to think of going back to New Moon and all the loved
            ones there—Teddy and his dear whistle, Ilse and her
            stimulating comradeship, Perry with his determined<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_287">287</a></span>
            reaching up for higher things, Saucy Sal and the new
            kitten that must be needing proper training now, and the
            fairy world of the <cite>Midsummer Night’s Dream</cite>. Cousin
            Jimmy’s garden would be in its prime of splendour, the
            August apples would be ripe. Suddenly, Emily was
            very ready to go. She packed her little black box jubilantly
            and found it an excellent chance to work in neatly
            a certain line from a poem Dean had recently read to
            her which had captured her fancy.</p>
        <p>“‘Good-bye, proud world, I’m going home,’” she declaimed
            feelingly, standing at the top of the long, dark,
            shining staircase and apostrophizing the row of grim
            Priest photographs hanging on the wall.</p>
        <p>But she was much annoyed over one thing. Aunt
            Nancy would not give her back the picture Teddy had
            painted.</p>
        <p>“I’m going to keep it,” Aunt Nancy said, grinning
            and shaking her gold tassels. “Some day that picture
            will be worth something as the early effort of a famous
            artist.”</p>
        <p>“I only lent it to you—I told you I only lent it to you,”
            said Emily indignantly.</p>
        <p>“I’m an unscrupulous old demon,” said Aunt Nancy
            coolly. “That is what the Priests all call me behind my
            back. Don’t they, Caroline? May as well have the
            game as the name. I happen to have a fancy for that
            picture, that’s all. I’m going to frame it and hang it
            here in my parlour. But I’ll leave it to you in my will—that
            and the chessy-cat and the gazing-ball and my gold
            earrings. Nothing else—I’m not going to leave you a
            cent of my money—never count on that.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t want it,” said Emily loftily. “I’m going to
            earn heaps of money for myself. But it isn’t fair of
            you to keep my picture. It was given to me.”</p>
        <p>“I never was fair,” said Aunt Nancy. “Was I, Caroline?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_288">288</a></span></p>
        <p>“No,” said Caroline shrewishly.</p>
        <p>“You see. Now don’t make a fuss, Emily. You’ve
            been a very good child but I feel that I’ve done my duty
            by you for this year. Go back to New Moon and when
            Elizabeth won’t let you do things tell her <em>I</em> always let
            you. I don’t know if it will do any good but try it.
            Elizabeth, like every one else related to me, is always
            wondering what I’m going to do with my money.”</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy came over for Emily. How glad she
            was to see his kind face with its gentle, elfish eyes and
            forked beard again! But she felt very badly when she
            turned to Dean.</p>
        <p>“If you like I’ll kiss you good-bye,” she said chokily.</p>
        <p>Emily did not like kissing people. She did not really
            want to kiss Dean but she liked him so much she thought
            she ought to extend all the courtesies to him.</p>
        <p>Dean looked down smiling into her face, so young,
            so pure, so softly curved.</p>
        <p>“No, I don’t want you to kiss me—yet. And our
            first kiss mustn’t have the flavour of good-bye. It would
            be a bad omen. Star O’ Morning, I’m sorry you’re
            going. But I’ll see you again before long. My oldest
            sister lives in Blair Water, you know, and I feel a sudden
            access of brotherly affection towards her. I seem to see
            myself visiting her very often henceforth. In the meantime
            remember you have promised to write me every
            week. And I’ll write you.”</p>
        <p>“Nice fat letters,” coaxed Emily. “I love fat letters.”</p>
        <p>“Fat! They’ll be positively corpulent, Star. Now,
            I’m not even going to <em>say</em> good-bye. Let’s make a pact,
            Star. We’ll never <em>say</em> good-bye to each other. We’ll
            just smile and go.”</p>
        <p>Emily made a gallant effort—smiled—and went.
            Aunt Nancy and Caroline returned to the back parlour
            and their cribbage. Dean Priest whistled for Tweed
            and went to the bay shore. He was so lonely that he
            laughed at himself.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_289">289</a></span></p>
        <p>Emily and Cousin Jimmy had so much to talk of that
            the drive home seemed very short.</p>
        <p>New Moon was white in the evening sunshine which
            also lay with exceeding mellowness on the grey old barns.
            The Three Princesses, shooting up against the silvery
            sky, were as remote and princessly as ever. The old
            gulf was singing away down over the fields.</p>
        <p>Aunt Laura came running out to meet them, her lovely
            blue eyes shining with pleasure. Aunt Elizabeth was in
            the cook-house preparing supper and only shook hands
            with Emily, but looked a trifle less grim and stately than
            usual, and she had made Emily’s favourite cream-puffs for
            supper. Perry was hanging about, barefooted and sunburned,
            to tell her all the gossip of kittens and calves
            and little pigs and the new foal. Ilse came swooping
            over, and Emily discovered she had forgotten how vivid
            Ilse was—how brilliant her amber eyes, how golden her
            mane of spun-silk hair, looking more golden than ever
            under the bright blue silk tam Mrs. Simms had bought
            her in Shrewsbury. As an article of dress, that loud
            tam made Laura Murray’s eyes and sensibilities ache,
            but its colour certainly did set off Ilse’s wonderful hair.
            She engulfed Emily in a rapturous embrace and quarrelled
            bitterly with her ten minutes later over the fact that
            Emily refused to give her Saucy Sal’s sole surviving
            kitten.</p>
        <p>“I ought to have it, you doddering hyena,” stormed
            Ilse. “It’s as much mine as yours, pig! Our old barn
            cat is its father.”</p>
        <p>“Such talk is not decent,” said Aunt Elizabeth, pale
            with horror. “And if you two children are going to
            quarrel over that kitten I’ll have it drowned—remember
            that.”</p>
        <p>Ilse was finally appeased by Emily’s offering to let
            her name the kitten and have a half interest in it. Ilse
            named it Daffodil. Emily did not think this suitable,
            since, from the fact of Cousin Jimmy referring to it as<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_290">290</a></span>
            Little Tommy, she suspected it was of the sterner sex.
            But rather than again provoke Aunt Elizabeth’s wrath
            by discussing tabooed subjects, she agreed.</p>
        <p>“I can call it Daff,” she thought. “That sounds more
            <em>masculine</em>.”
        </p>
        <p>The kitten was a delicate bit of striped greyness that
            reminded Emily of her dear lost Mikes. And it smelled
            so nice—of warmth and clean furriness, with whiffs of
            the clover hay where Saucy Sal had made her mother-nest.</p>
        <p>After supper she heard Teddy’s whistle in the old orchard—the
            same enchanting call. Emily flew out to
            greet him—after all, there was nobody just like Teddy
            in the world. They had an ecstatic scamper up to the
            Tansy Patch to see a new puppy that Dr. Burnley had
            given Teddy. Mrs. Kent did not seem very glad to see
            Emily—she was colder and more remote than ever, and
            she sat and watched the two children playing with the
            chubby little pup with a smouldering fire in her dark
            eyes that made Emily vaguely uncomfortable whenever
            she happened to glance up and encounter it. Never before
            had she sensed Mrs. Kent’s dislike for her so keenly
            as that night.</p>
        <p>“Why doesn’t your mother like me?” she asked Teddy
            bluntly, when they carried little Leo to the barn for the
            night.</p>
        <p>“Because <em>I</em> do,” said Teddy briefly. “She doesn’t like
            <em>anything</em> I like. I’m afraid she’ll poison Leo very soon.
            I—I wish she wasn’t so fond of me,” he burst out, in
            the beginning of a revolt against this abnormal jealousy
            of love, which he felt rather than understood to be a
            fetter that was becoming galling. “She says she won’t
            let me take up Latin and Algebra this year—you know
            Miss Brownell said I might—because I’m not to go to
            college. She says she can’t bear to part from me—ever.
            I don’t care about the Latin and stuff—but I want to
            learn to be an artist—I want to go away some day to the<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_291">291</a></span>
            schools where they teach that. She won’t let me—she
            hates my pictures now because she thinks I like them
            better than her. I <em>don’t</em>—I love Mother—she’s awful
            sweet and good to me every other way. But she thinks
            I do—and she’s burned some of them. I know she has.
            They’re missing from the barn wall and I can’t find them
            anywhere. If she does anything to Leo—I’ll—I’ll <em>hate</em>
            her.”
        </p>
        <p>“Tell her that,” said Emily coolly, with some of the
            Murray shrewdness coming uppermost in her. “She
            doesn’t know that <em>you</em> know she poisoned Smoke and
            Buttercup. Tell her you do know it and that if she does
            anything to Leo you won’t love her any more. She’ll
            be so frightened of your <em>not</em> loving her that she won’t
            meddle with Leo—I <em>know</em>. Tell her gently—don’t hurt
            her feelings—but <em>tell</em> her. It will,” concluded Emily,
            with a killing imitation of Aunt Elizabeth delivering an
            ultimatum, “be better for all concerned.”</p>
        <p>“I believe I will,” said Teddy, much impressed. “I
            <em>can’t</em> have Leo disappear like my cats did—he’s the only
            dog I’ve ever had and I’ve always wanted a dog. Oh,
            Emily, I’m glad you’re back!”
        </p>
        <p>It was very nice to be told this—especially by Teddy.
            Emily went home to New Moon happily. In the old
            kitchen the candles were lighted and their flames were
            dancing in the winds of the August night blowing
            through door and window.</p>
        <p>“I suppose you’ll not like candles very well, Emily,
            after being used to lamps at Wyther Grange,” said Aunt
            Laura with a little sigh. It was one of the bitter, small
            things in Laura Murray’s life that Elizabeth’s tyranny
            extended to candles.</p>
        <p>Emily looked around her thoughtfully. One candle
            sputtered and bobbed at her as if greeting her. One,
            with a long wick, glowed and smouldered like a sulky
            little demon. One had a tiny flame—a sly, meditative
            candle. One swayed with a queer fiery grace in the<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_292">292</a></span>
            draught from the door. One burned with a steady upright
            flame like a faithful soul.</p>
        <p>“I—don’t know—Aunt Laura,” she answered slowly.
            “You can be—friends—with candles. I believe I like
            the candles best after all.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth, coming in from the cook-house, heard
            her. Something like pleasure gleamed in her gulf-blue
            eyes.</p>
        <p>“You have some sense in you,” she said.</p>
        <p>“That’s the second compliment she has paid me,”
            thought Emily.</p>
        <p>“I think Emily has grown taller since she went to
            Wyther Grange,” Aunt Laura said, looking at her rather
            wistfully.</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth, snuffing the candles, glanced sharply
            over her glasses.</p>
        <p>“I can’t see it,” she said. “Her dress is just the same
            length on her.”</p>
        <p>“I’m sure she has,” persisted Laura.</p>
        <p>Cousin Jimmy, to settle the dispute, measured Emily
            by the sitting-room door. She just touched the former
            mark.</p>
        <p>“You see,” said Aunt Elizabeth triumphantly, liking
            to be right even in this small matter.</p>
        <p>“She looks—different,” said Laura with a sigh.</p>
        <p>Laura, after all, was right. Emily <em>had</em> grown, taller
            and older, in soul, if not in body. It was this change
            which Laura felt, as close and tender affection swiftly
            feels. The Emily who returned from Wyther Grange
            was not the Emily who had gone there. She was no
            longer wholly the child. Aunt Nancy’s family histories
            over which she had pondered, her enduring anguish over
            the story of Ilse’s mother, that terrible hour when she
            had lain cheek by jowl with death on the cliffs of the bay
            shore, her association with Dean Priest, all had combined
            to mature her intelligence and her emotions. When she
            went to the garret next morning and pulled out her precious<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_293">293</a></span>
            little bundle of manuscripts to read them lovingly
            over she was amazed and rather grieved to find that they
            were not half so good as she had believed they were.
            Some of them were positively silly, she thought; she
            was ashamed of them—so ashamed that she smuggled
            them down to the cook-house stove and burned them,
            much to Aunt Elizabeth’s annoyance when she came to
            prepare dinner and found the fire-box all choked up with
            charred paper.</p>
        <p>Emily no longer wondered that Miss Brownell had
            made fun of them—though this did not mellow her bitterness
            of remembrance in regard to that lady in any
            degree. The rest she put back on the sofa shelf, including
            “The Child of the Sea,” which still impressed
            her as fairly good, though not just the wonderful composition
            she had once deemed it. She felt that many
            passages could be re-written to their advantage. Then
            she immediately began writing a new poem, “On Returning
            Home After Weeks’ Absence.” As everything
            and everybody connected with New Moon had to be mentioned
            in this poem it promised to be quite long and to
            furnish agreeable occupation for spare minutes in many
            weeks to come. It was very good to be home again.</p>
        <p>“There is no place just like dear New Moon,” thought
            Emily.</p>
        <p>One thing that marked her return—one of those little
            household “epochs” that make a keener impression on
            the memory and imagination than perhaps their real
            importance warrants—was the fact that she was given a
            room of her own. Aunt Elizabeth had found her unshared
            slumber too sweet a thing to be again surrendered.
            She decided that she could not put up any longer with a
            squirming bedfellow who asked unearthly questions at
            any hour of the night she took it into her head to do
            so.</p>
        <p>So, after a long conference with Laura, it was settled
            that Emily was to have her mother’s room—the “lookout”<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_294">294</a></span>
            as it was called, though it was not really a lookout.
            But it occupied the place in New Moon, looking over the
            front door to the garden, that the real lookouts did in
            other Blair Water houses, so it went by that name. It
            had been prepared for Emily’s occupancy in her absence
            and when bedtime came on the first evening of her return
            Aunt Elizabeth curtly told her that henceforth she
            was to have her mother’s room.</p>
        <p>“All to myself?” exclaimed Emily.</p>
        <p>“Yes. We will expect you to take care of it yourself
            and keep it very tidy.”</p>
        <p>“It has never been slept in since the night before your
            mother—went away,” said Aunt Laura, with a queer
            sound in her voice—a sound of which Aunt Elizabeth
            disapproved.</p>
        <p>“Your mother,” she said, looking coldly at Emily over
            the flame of the candle—an attitude that gave a rather
            gruesome effect to her acquiline features—“<em>ran</em> away—flouted
            her family and broke her father’s heart. She
            was a silly, ungrateful, disobedient girl. I hope <em>you</em> will
            never disgrace your family by such conduct.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, Aunt Elizabeth,” said Emily breathlessly, “when
            you hold the candle down like that it makes your face
            look just like a corpse! Oh, it’s so interesting.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth turned and led the way upstairs in grim
            silence. There was no use in wasting perfectly good
            admonitions on a child like this.</p>
        <p>Left alone in her lookout, lighted dimly by the one
            small candle, Emily gazed about her with keen and thrilling
            interest. She could not get into bed until she had
            explored every bit of it. The room was very old-fashioned,
            like all the New Moon rooms. The walls were
            papered with a design of slender gilt diamonds enclosing
            golden stars and hung with worked woollen mottoes and
            pictures that had been “supplements” in the girlhood of
            her aunts. One of them, hanging over the head of the
            bed, represented two guardian angels. In its day this<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_295">295</a></span>
            had been much admired but Emily looked at it with distaste.</p>
        <p>“I don’t like feather wings on angels,” she said decidedly.
            “Angels should have rainbowy wings.”</p>
        <p>On the floor was a pretty homespun carpet and round
            braided rugs. There was a high black bedstead with
            carved posts, a fat feather-bed, and an Irish chain quilt,
            but, as Emily was glad to see, no curtains. A little table,
            with funny claw-feet and brass-knobbed drawers, stood
            by the window, which was curtained with muslin frills;
            one of the window-panes contorted the landscape funnily,
            making a hill where no hill was. Emily liked this—she
            couldn’t have told why, but it was really because it
            gave the pane an individuality of its own. An oval mirror
            in a tarnished gilt frame hung above the table; Emily
            was delighted to find she could see herself in it—“all but
            my boots”—without craning or tipping it. “And it
            doesn’t twist my face or turn my complexion green,” she
            thought happily. Two high-backed, black chairs with
            horsehair seats, a little washstand with a blue basin and
            pitcher, and a faded ottoman with woollen roses cross-stitched
            on it, completed the furnishing. On the little
            mantel were vases full of dried and coloured grasses and
            a fascinating pot-bellied bottle filled with West Indian
            shells. On either side were lovable little cupboards with
            leaded-glass doors like those in the sitting-room. Underneath
            was a small fireplace.</p>
        <p>“I wonder if Aunt Elizabeth will ever let me have a
            little fire here,” thought Emily.</p>
        <p>The room was full of that indefinable charm found
            in all rooms where the pieces of furniture, whether old
            or new, are well acquainted with each other and the walls
            and floors are on good terms. Emily felt it all over her
            as she flitted about examining everything. This was
            her room—she loved it already—she felt perfectly at
            home.</p>
        <p>“I belong here,” she breathed happily.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_296">296</a></span></p>
        <p>She felt deliciously <em>near</em> to her mother—as if Juliet
            Starr had suddenly become real to her. It thrilled her
            to think that her mother had probably crocheted the lace
            cover on the round pincushion on the table. And that
            fat, black jar of pot-pourri on the mantel—her mother
            must have compounded it. When Emily lifted the lid a
            faint spicy odour floated out. The souls of all the roses
            that had bloomed through many olden summers at New
            Moon seemed to be prisoned there in a sort of flower
            purgatory. Something in the haunting, mystical, elusive
            odour gave Emily <em>the flash</em>—and her room had received
            its consecration.</p>
        <p>There was a picture of her mother hanging over the
            mantel—a large daguerreotype taken when she was a little
            girl. Emily looked at it lovingly. She had the picture
            of her mother which her father had left, taken after their
            marriage. But when Aunt Elizabeth had brought that
            from Maywood to New Moon she had hung it in the
            parlour where Emily seldom saw it. This picture, in her
            bedroom, of the golden-haired, rose-cheeked girl, was all
            her own. She could look at it—talk to it at will.</p>
        <p>“Oh, Mother,” she said, “what did you think of when
            you were a little girl here like me? I wish I could have
            known you <em>then</em>. And to think nobody has ever slept
            here since that last night you did before you ran away
            with Father. Aunt Elizabeth says you were wicked to
            do it but <em>I</em> don’t think you were. It wasn’t as if you
            were running away with a <em>stranger</em>. Anyway, I’m glad
            you <em>did</em>, because if you hadn’t there wouldn’t have been
            any <em>me</em>.”</p>
        <p>Emily, very glad that there was an Emily, opened her
            lookout window as high as it would go, got into bed
            and drifted off to sleep, feeling a happiness that was so
            deep as to be almost pain as she listened to the sonorous
            sweep of the night wind among the great trees in Lofty
            John’s bush. When she wrote to her father a few days
            later she began the letter “Dear Father and Mother.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_297">297</a></span></p>
        <p>“And I’ll always write the letter to <em>you</em> as well as
            Father after this, Mother. I’m sorry I left you out so
            long. But you didn’t seem <em>real</em> till that night I came
            home. I made the bed beautifully next morning—Aunt
            Elizabeth didn’t find a bit of fault with it—and I dusted
            <em>everything</em>—and when I went out I knelt down and
            kissed the doorstep. I didn’t think Aunt Elizabeth saw
            me but she did and said had I gone crazy. Why does
            Aunt Elizabeth think any one is crazy who does something
            she never does? I said ‘No, it’s only because I
            love my room so much’ and she sniffed and said ‘You’d
            better love your God.’ But so I do, dear Father—and
            Mother—and I love Him better than ever since I have my
            dear room. I can see all over the garden from it and
            into Lofty John’s bush and one little bit of the Blair
            Water through the gap in the trees where the Yesterday
            Road runs. I like to go to bed early now. I love to lie
            all alone in my own room and make poetry and think out
            descriptions of things while I look through the open
            window at the stars and the nice, big, kind, quiet trees in
            Lofty John’s bush.
        </p>
        <p>“Oh, Father dear and Mother, we are going to have a
            new teacher. Miss Brownell is not coming back. She
            is going to be married and Ilse says that when her father
            heard it he said ‘God help the man.’ And the new
            teacher is a Mr. Carpenter. Ilse saw him when he came
            to see her father about the school—because Dr. Burnley is
            a trustee this year—and she says he has bushy grey hair
            and whiskers. He is married, too, and is going to live
            in that little old house down in the hollow below the
            school. It seems so funny to think of a teacher having
            a wife and whiskers.</p>
        <p>“I am glad to be home. But I miss Dean and the
            gazing-ball. Aunt Elizabeth looked very cross when she
            saw my bang but didn’t say anything. Aunt Laura says
            just to keep quiet and go on wearing it. But I don’t feel
            comfortable going against Aunt Elizabeth so I have<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_298">298</a></span>
            combed it all back except a <em>little</em> fringe. I don’t feel <em>quite</em>
            comfortable about it even yet, but I have to put up with
            being a little uncomfortable for the sake of my looks.
            Aunt Laura says bustles are going out of style so I’ll
            never be able to have one but I don’t care because I think
            they’re ugly. Rhoda Stuart will be cross because she
            was just longing to be old enough to wear a bustle. I
            hope I’ll be able to have a gin-jar all to myself when the
            weather gets cold. There is a row of gin-jars on the
            high shelf in the cook-house.</p>
        <p>“Teddy and I had the nicest <em>adventure</em> yesterday evening.
            We are going to keep it a secret from everybody—partly
            because it was so nice, and partly because we
            think we’d get a fearful scolding for one thing we did.</p>
        <p>“We went up to the Disappointed House, and we found
            one of the boards on the windows loose. So we pried it
            off and crawled in and went all over the house. It is
            lathed but not plastered, and the shavings are lying all
            over the floors just as the carpenters left them years ago.
            It seemed more disappointed than ever. I just felt like
            crying. There was a dear little fireplace in one room so
            we went to work and kindled a fire in it with shavings and
            pieces of boards (this is the thing we would be scolded
            for, likely) and then sat before it on an old carpenter’s
            bench and talked. We decided that when we grew up we
            would buy the Disappointed House and live here together.
            Teddy said he supposed we’d have to get married, but I
            thought maybe we could find a way to manage without
            going to all that bother. Teddy will paint pictures and I
            will write poetry and we will have toast and bacon and
            marmalade <em>every morning</em> for breakfast—just like
            Wyther Grange—but <em>never</em> porridge. And we’ll always
            have lots of nice things to eat in the pantry and I’ll make
            lots of jam and Teddy is always going to help me wash
            the dishes and we’ll hang the gazing-ball from the middle
            of the ceiling in the fireplace room—because likely Aunt
            Nancy will be dead by then.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_299">299</a></span>
            “When the fire burned out we jammed the board into
            place in the window and came away. Every now and
            then to-day Teddy would say to me “Toast and bacon and
            marmalade” in the <em>most mysterious</em> tones and Ilse and
            Perry are wild because they can’t find out what he means.</p>
        <p>“Cousin Jimmy has got Jimmy Joe Belle to help with
            the harvest. Jimmy Joe Belle comes from over Derry
            Pond way. There are a great many French there and
            when a French girl marries they call her mostly by her
            husband’s first name instead of Mrs. like the English do.
            If a girl named Mary marries a man named Leon she will
            always be called Mary Leon after that. But in Jimmy
            Joe Belle’s case, it is the other way and he is called by his
            wife’s name. I asked Cousin Jimmy why, and he said
            it was because Jimmy Joe was a poor stick of a creature
            and Belle wore the britches. But still I don’t understand.
            Jimmy Joe wears britches himself—that means trousers—and
            why should he be called Jimmy Joe Belle instead of
            her being called Belle Jimmy Joe just because she wears
            them too! I won’t rest till I find out.</p>
        <p>“Cousin Jimmy’s garden is splendid now. The tiger
            lilies are out. I am trying to love them because nobody
            seems to like them at all but deep down in my heart I
            know I love the late roses best. You just can’t help loving
            the roses best.</p>
        <p>“Ilse and I hunted all over the old orchard to-day for a
            four-leaved clover and couldn’t find one. Then I found
            one in a clump of clover by the dairy steps to-night when
            I was straining the milk and never thinking of clovers.
            Cousin Jimmy says that is the way luck always comes,
            and it is no use to look for it.</p>
        <p>“It is lovely to be with Ilse again. We have only
            fought twice since I came home. I am going to try not
            to fight with Ilse any more because I don’t think it is
            dignified, although quite interesting. But it is hard not
            to because even when I keep quiet and don’t say a word
            Ilse thinks that’s a way of fighting and gets madder and<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_300">300</a></span>
            says worse things than ever. Aunt Elizabeth says it
            always takes two to make a quarrel but she doesn’t know
            Ilse as I do. Ilse called me a sneaking albatross to-day.
            I wonder how many animals are left to call me. She
            never repeats the same one twice. I wish she wouldn’t
            clapper-claw Perry so much. (Clapper-claw is a word I
            learned from Aunt Nancy. Very striking, I think.) It
            seems as if she couldn’t bear him. He dared Teddy to
            jump from the henhouse roof across to the pighouse roof.
            Teddy wouldn’t. He said he would try it if it had to be
            done or would do anybody any good but he wasn’t going
            to do it just to show off. Perry did it and landed safe.
            If he hadn’t he might have broken his neck. Then he
            bragged about it and said Teddy was afraid and Ilse
            turned red as a beet and told him to shut up or she would
            bite his snout off. She can’t bear to have anything said
            against Teddy, but I guess he can take care of himself.</p>
        <p>“Ilse can’t study for the Entrance either. Her father
            won’t let her. But she says she doesn’t care. She says
            she’s going to run away when she gets a little older and
            study for the stage. That sounds wicked, but interesting.</p>
        <p>“I felt very queer and guilty when I saw Ilse first,
            because I knew about her mother. I don’t know why I
            felt guilty because I had nothing to do with it. The
            feeling is wearing away a little now but I am so unhappy
            by spells over it. I wish I could either forget it altogether
            or find out the rights of it. Because I am sure
            nobody knows them.</p>
        <p>“I had a letter from Dean to-day. He writes lovely
            letters—just as if I was grown up. He sent me a little
            poem he had cut out of a paper called <cite>The Fringed
                Gentian</cite>. He said it made him think of me. It is all
            lovely but I like the last verse best of all. This is it:</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">Then whisper, blossom, in thy sleep</div>
                    <div class="line">How I may upward climb</div>
                    <div class="line">The Alpine Path, so hard, so steep,</div><span class="pagenum"><a
                            id="Page_301">301</a></span>
                    <div class="line">That leads to heights sublime.</div>
                    <div class="line">How I may reach that far-off goal</div>
                    <div class="line">Of true and honored fame</div>
                    <div class="line">And write upon its shining scroll</div>
                    <div class="line">A woman’s humble name.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>“When I read that <em>the flash</em> came, and I took a sheet of
            paper—I forgot to tell you Cousin Jimmy gave me a
            little box of paper and envelopes—<em>on the sly</em>—and I
            wrote on it:</p>
        <blockquote>
            <div>
                <p>I, Emily Byrd Starr, do solemnly vow this day
                    that I will climb the Alpine Path and write my name
                    on the scroll of fame.</p>
            </div>
        </blockquote>
        <p>“Then I put it in the envelope and sealed it up and
            wrote on it <em>The Vow of Emily Byrd Starr, aged 12 years
                and 3 months</em>, and put it away on the sofa shelf in the
            garret.</p>
        <p>“I am writing a murder story now and I am trying to
            feel how a man would feel who was a murderer. It is
            creepy, but thrilling. I almost feel as if I <em>had</em> murdered
            somebody.</p>
        <p class="center mb0">“Good night, dear Father and Mother.</p>
        <p class="mt0 mb0 center-right4">“Your lovingest daughter,</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>Emily</em>.</p>
        <p class="mb0">“P. S. I have been wondering how I’ll sign my name
            when I grow up and print my pieces. I don’t know
            which would be best—Emily Byrd Starr in full or Emily
            B. Starr, or E. B. Starr, or E. Byrd Starr. Sometimes I
            think I’ll have a <i lang="fr">nom-de-plume</i>—that is, another name
            you pick for yourself. It’s in my dictionary among the
            “French phrases” at the back. If I did that then I could
            hear people talking of my pieces right before me, never
            suspecting, and say just what they really thought of
            them. That would be interesting but perhaps not always
            comfortable. I think I’ll be,</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right4">“<em>E. Byrd Starr</em>.”</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_302">302</a></span>
            <h2><a id="xxviii" />CHAPTER XXVIII<br />
                <span>A Weaver of Dreams</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">I</span>T took Emily several weeks to make up her mind
            whether she liked Mr. Carpenter or not. She knew
            she did not <em>dis</em>like him, not even though his first greeting,
            shot at her on the opening day of school in a gruff voice,
            accompanied by a startling lift of his spiky grey brows
            was, “So you’re the girl that writes poetry, eh? Better
            stick to your needle and duster. Too many fools in the
            world trying to write poetry and failing. I tried it myself
            once. Got better sense now.”</p>
        <p>“You don’t keep your nails clean,” thought Emily.</p>
        <p>But he upset every kind of school tradition so speedily
            and thoroughly that Ilse, who gloried in upsetting things
            and hated routine, was the only scholar that liked him
            from the start. Some never liked him—the Rhoda
            Stuart type for example—but most of them came to it
            after they got used to never being used to anything.
            And Emily finally decided that she liked him tremendously.</p>
        <p>Mr. Carpenter was somewhere between forty and fifty—a
            tall man, with an upstanding shock of bushy grey
            hair, bristling grey moustache and eyebrows, a truculent
            beard, bright blue eyes out of which all his wild life had
            not yet burned the fire, and a long, lean, greyish face,
            deeply lined. He lived in a little two-roomed house
            below the school with a shy mouse of a wife. He never
            talked of his past or offered any explanation of the fact
            that at his age he had no better profession than teaching a
            district school for a pittance of salary, but the truth
            leaked out after a while; for Prince Edward Island is a
            small province and everybody in it knows something<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_303">303</a></span>
            about everybody else. So eventually Blair Water people,
            and even the school children, understood that Mr. Carpenter
            had been a brilliant student in his youth and had
            had his eye on the ministry. But at college he had got in
            with a “fast set”—Blair Water people nodded heads
            slowly and whispered the dreadful phrase portentously—and
            the fast set had ruined him. He “took to drink” and
            went to the dogs generally. And the upshot of it all was
            that Francis Carpenter, who had led his class in his first
            and second years at McGill, and for whom his teachers
            had predicted a great career, was a country school-teacher
            at forty-five with no prospect of ever being anything else.
            Perhaps he was resigned to it—perhaps not. Nobody
            ever knew, not even the brown mouse of a wife. Nobody
            in Blair Water cared—he was a good teacher, and that
            was all that mattered. Even if he did go on occasional
            “sprees” he always took Saturday for them and was sober
            enough by Monday. Sober, and especially dignified,
            wearing a rusty black frock coat which he never put on
            any other day of the week. He did not invite pity and he
            did not pose as a tragedy. But sometimes, when Emily
            looked at his face, bent over the arithmetic problems of
            Blair Water School, she felt horribly sorry for him
            without in the least understanding why.</p>
        <p>He had an explosive temper which generally burst into
            flame at least once a day, and then he would storm about
            wildly for a few minutes, tugging at his beard, imploring
            heaven to grant him patience, abusing everybody in
            general and the luckless object of his wrath in particular.
            But these tempers never lasted long. In a few minutes
            Mr. Carpenter would be smiling as graciously as a sun
            bursting through a storm-cloud on the very pupil he had
            been rating. Nobody seemed to cherish any grudge
            because of his scoldings. He never said any of the biting
            things Miss Brownell was wont to say, which rankled
            and festered for weeks; his hail of words fell alike on
            just and unjust and rolled off harmlessly.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_304">304</a></span></p>
        <p>He could take a joke on himself in perfect good nature.
            “Do you hear me? Do you hear me, sirrah?” he bellowed
            to Perry Miller one day. “Of course I hear you,”
            retorted Perry coolly, “they could hear you in Charlottetown.”
            Mr. Carpenter stared for a moment, then broke
            into a great, jolly laugh.</p>
        <p>His methods of teaching were so different from Miss
            Brownell’s that the Blair Water pupils at first felt as if he
            had stood them on their heads. Miss Brownell had been
            a martinet for order. Mr. Carpenter never tried to keep
            order apparently. But somehow he kept the children so
            busy that they had no time to do mischief. He taught
            history tempestuously for a month, making his pupils play
            the different characters and enact the incidents. He
            never bothered any one to learn dates—but the dates stuck
            in the memory just the same. If, as Mary Queen of
            Scots, you were beheaded by the school axe, kneeling
            blindfolded at the doorstep, with Perry Miller, wearing a
            mask made out of a piece of Aunt Laura’s old black silk,
            for executioner, wondering what would happen if he
            brought the axe down <em>too</em> hard, you did not forget the
            year it happened; and if you fought the battle of Waterloo
            all over the school playground, and heard Teddy Kent
            shouting, “Up, Guards and at ’em!” as he led the last
            furious charge you remembered 1815 without half trying
            to.</p>
        <p>Next month history would be thrust aside altogether
            and geography would take its place, when school and
            playground were mapped out into countries and you
            dressed up as the animals inhabiting them or traded in
            various commodities over their rivers and cities. When
            Rhoda Stuart had cheated you in a bargain in hides, you
            remembered that she had bought the cargo from the Argentine
            Republic, and when Perry Miller would not drink
            any water for a whole hot summer day because he was
            crossing the Arabian Desert with a caravan of camels and<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_305">305</a></span>
            could not find an oasis, and then drank so much that he
            took terrible cramps and Aunt Laura had to be up all night
            with him—you did not forget where the said desert was.
            The trustees were quite scandalized over some of the
            goings on and felt sure that the children were having too
            good a time to be really learning anything.</p>
        <p>If you wanted to learn Latin and French you had to do
            it by talking your exercises, not writing them, and on
            Friday afternoons all lessons were put aside and Mr. Carpenter
            made the children recite poems, make speeches and
            declaim passages from Shakespeare and the Bible. This
            was the day Ilse loved. Mr. Carpenter pounced on her
            gift like a starving dog on a bone and drilled her without
            mercy. They had endless fights and Ilse stamped her
            foot and called him names while the other pupils wondered
            why she was not punished for it but at last had to
            give in and do as he willed. Ilse went to school regularly—something
            she had never done before. Mr. Carpenter
            had told her that if she were absent for a day without
            good excuse she could take no part in the Friday “exercises”
            and this would have killed her.</p>
        <p>One day Mr. Carpenter had picked up Teddy’s slate
            and found a sketch of himself on it, in one of his favourite
            if not exactly beautiful attitudes. Teddy had labelled
            it “The Black Death”—half of the pupils of the
            school having died that day of the Great Plague, and having
            been carried out on stretchers to the Potter’s Field by
            the terrified survivors.</p>
        <p>Teddy expected a roar of denunciation, for the day
            before Garrett Marshall had been ground into figurative
            pulp on being discovered with the picture of a harmless
            cow on his slate—at least, Garrett said he meant it for
            a cow. But now this amazing Mr. Carpenter only drew
            his beetling brows together, looked earnestly at Teddy’s
            slate, put it down on the desk, looked at Teddy, and said,</p>
        <p>“I don’t know anything about drawing—I can’t help<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_306">306</a></span>
            you, but, by gad, I think hereafter you’d better give up
            those extra arithmetic problems in the afternoon and
            draw pictures.”</p>
        <p>Whereupon Garrett Marshall went home and told his
            father that “old Carpenter” wasn’t fair and “made favourites”
            over Teddy Kent.</p>
        <p>Mr. Carpenter went up to the Tansy Patch that evening
            and saw the sketches in Teddy’s old barn-loft studio.
            Then he went into the house and talked to Mrs. Kent.
            What he said and what she said nobody ever knew. But
            Mr. Carpenter went away looking grim, as if he had met
            an unexpected match. He took great pains with Teddy’s
            general school work after that and procured from somewhere
            certain elementary text books on drawing which he
            gave him, telling him not to take them home—a caution
            Teddy did not require. He knew quite well that if he
            did they would disappear as mysteriously as his cats had
            done. He had taken Emily’s advice and told his mother
            he would not love <em>her</em> if anything happened to Leo, and
            Leo flourished and waxed fat and doggy. But Teddy
            was too gentle at heart and too fond of his mother to
            make such a threat more than once. He knew she had
            cried all that night after Mr. Carpenter had been there,
            and prayed on her knees in her little bedroom most of the
            next day, and looked at him with bitter, haunting eyes for
            a week. He wished she were more like other fellows’
            mothers but they loved each other very much and had
            dear hours together in the little grey house on the tansy
            hill. It was only when other people were about that Mrs.
            Kent was queer and jealous.</p>
        <p>“She’s always lovely when we’re alone,” Teddy had
            told Emily.</p>
        <p>As for the other boys, Perry Miller was the only one
            Mr. Carpenter bothered much with in the way of speeches—and
            he was as merciless with him as with Ilse. Perry
            worked hard to please him and practiced his speeches in
            barn and field—and even by nights in the kitchen loft—until<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_307">307</a></span>
            Aunt Elizabeth put a stop to <em>that</em>. Emily could not
            understand why Mr. Carpenter would smile amiably and
            say, “Very good” when Neddy Gray rattled off a speech
            glibly, without any expression whatever, and then rage at
            Perry and denounce him as a dunce and a nincompoop,
            by gad, because he had failed to give just the proper
            emphasis on a certain word, or had timed his gesture a
            fraction of a second too soon.</p>
        <p>Neither could she understand why he made red pencil
            corrections all over her compositions and rated her for
            split infinitives and too lavish adjectives and strode up
            and down the aisle and hurled objurgations at her because
            she didn’t know “a good place to stop when she saw it,
            by gad,” and then told Rhoda Stuart and Nan Lee that
            their compositions were very pretty and gave them back
            without so much as a mark on them. Yet, in spite of it
            all, she liked him more and more as time went on and
            autumn passed and winter came with its beautiful bare-limbed
            trees, and soft pearl-grey skies that were slashed
            with rifts of gold in the afternoons, and cleared to a
            jewelled pageantry of stars over the wide white hills and
            valleys around New Moon.</p>
        <p>Emily shot up so that winter that Aunt Laura had to
            let down the tucks in her dresses. Aunt Ruth, who had
            come for a week’s visit, said she was outgrowing her
            strength—consumptive children always did.</p>
        <p>“I am <em>not</em> consumptive,” Emily said. “The Starrs
            are tall,” she added, with a touch of subtle malice hardly
            to be looked for in near-thirteen.</p>
        <p>Aunt Ruth, who was sensitive in regard to her dumpiness,
            sniffed.</p>
        <p>“It would be well if <em>that</em> were the only thing in which
            you resemble them,” she said. “How are you getting on
            in school?”</p>
        <p>“Very well. I am the smartest scholar in my class,”
            answered Emily composedly.</p>
        <p>“You conceited child!” said Aunt Ruth.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_308">308</a></span></p>
        <p>“I’m <em>not</em> conceited.” Emily looked scornful indignation.
            “Mr. Carpenter said it and <em>he</em> doesn’t flatter. Besides,
            I can’t help seeing it myself.”</p>
        <p>“Well, it is to be hoped you have some brains, because
            you haven’t much in the way of looks,” said Aunt Ruth.
            “You’ve no complexion to speak of—and that inky hair
            around your white face is startling. I see you’re going
            to be a plain girl.”</p>
        <p>“You wouldn’t say that to a grown-up person’s face,”
            said Emily with a deliberate gravity which always exasperated
            Aunt Ruth because she could not understand it in
            a child. “I don’t think it would hurt you to be as polite
            to me as you are to other people.”</p>
        <p>“I’m telling you your faults so you may correct them,”
            said Aunt Ruth frigidly.</p>
        <p>“It <em>isn’t</em> my fault that my face is pale and my hair
            black,” protested Emily. “I can’t correct that.”</p>
        <p>“If you were a different girl,” said Aunt Ruth, “I
            would—”</p>
        <p>“But I don’t <em>want</em> to be a different girl,” said Emily decidedly.
            She had no intention of lowering the Starr flag
            to Aunt Ruth. “I wouldn’t want to be anybody but myself
            even if I am plain. Besides,” she added impressively
            as she turned to go out of the room, “though I may not
            be very good-looking now, when I go to heaven I believe
            I’ll be very beautiful.”</p>
        <p>“Some people think Emily quite pretty,” said Aunt
            Laura, but she did not say it until Emily was out of hearing.
            She was Murray enough for that.</p>
        <p>“I don’t know where they see it,” said Aunt Ruth.
            “She’s vain and pert and says things to be thought smart.
            You heard her just now. But the thing I dislike most
            in her is that she is un-childlike—and deep as the sea.
            Yes, she is, Laura—deep as the sea. You’ll find it out
            to your cost one day if you disregard my warning.
            She’s capable of anything. Sly is no word for it. You<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_309">309</a></span>
            and Elizabeth don’t keep a tight enough rein over her.”</p>
        <p>“I’ve done my best,” said Elizabeth stiffly. She herself
            did think she had been much too lenient with
            Emily—Laura and Jimmy were two to one—but it nettled
            her to have Ruth say so.</p>
        <p>Uncle Wallace also had an attack of worrying over
            Emily that winter.</p>
        <p>He looked at her one day when he was at New Moon
            and remarked that she was getting to be a big girl.</p>
        <p>“How old are you, Emily?” He asked her that every
            time he came to New Moon.</p>
        <p>“Thirteen in May.”</p>
        <p>“H’m. What are you going to do with her, Elizabeth?”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know what you mean,” said Aunt Elizabeth
            coldly—or as coldly as is possible to speak when one is
            pouring melted tallow into candle-moulds.</p>
        <p>“Why, she’ll soon be grown up. She can’t expect you
            to provide for her indefinitely”—</p>
        <p>“I don’t,” Emily whispered resentfully under her
            breath.</p>
        <p>“—and it’s time we decided what is best to be done for
            her.”</p>
        <p>“The Murray women have never had to work out for
            a living,” said Aunt Elizabeth, as if that disposed of the
            matter.</p>
        <p>“Emily is only half Murray,” said Wallace. “Besides,
            times are changing. You and Laura will not live forever,
            Elizabeth, and when you are gone New Moon goes
            to Oliver’s Andrew. In my opinion Emily should be
            fitted to support herself if necessary.”</p>
        <p>Emily did not like Uncle Wallace but she was very
            grateful to him at that moment. Whatever his motives
            were he was proposing the very thing she secretly
            yearned for.</p>
        <p>“I would suggest,” said Uncle Wallace, “that she be<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_310">310</a></span>
            sent to Queen’s Academy to get a teacher’s license.
            Teaching is a genteel, lady-like occupation. <em>I</em> will do my
            share in providing for the expense of it.”</p>
        <p>A blind person might have seen that Uncle Wallace
            thought this very splendid of himself.</p>
        <p>“If you do,” thought Emily, “I’ll pay every cent back
            to you as soon as I’m able to earn it.”</p>
        <p>But Aunt Elizabeth was adamant.</p>
        <p>“I do not believe in girls going out into the world,”
            she said. “I don’t mean Emily to go to Queen’s. I told
            Mr. Carpenter so when he came to see me about her taking
            up the Entrance work. He was very rude—school-teachers
            knew their place better in my father’s time. But
            I made him understand, I think. I’m rather surprised
            at <em>you</em>, Wallace. You did not send your own daughter
            out to work.”</p>
        <p>“<em>My</em> daughter had parents to provide for her,” retorted
            Uncle Wallace pompously. “Emily is an orphan.
            I imagined from what I had heard about her that she
            would prefer earning her own living to living on charity.”</p>
        <p>“So I would,” cried out Emily. “So I would, Uncle
            Wallace. Oh, Aunt Elizabeth, please let me study for
            the Entrance. Please! I’ll pay you back every cent you
            spend on it—I will indeed. I pledge you my word of
            honour.”</p>
        <p>“It does not happen to be a question of money,” said
            Aunt Elizabeth in her stateliest manner. “I undertook
            to provide for you, Emily, and I will do it. When you
            are older I may send you to the High School in Shrewbury
            for a couple of years. I am not decrying education.
            But you are not going to be a slave to the public—no
            Murray girl ever was <em>that</em>.”</p>
        <p>Emily realising the uselessness of pleading, went out
            in the same bitter disappointment she had felt after Mr.
            Carpenter’s visit. Then Aunt Elizabeth looked at Wallace.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_311">311</a></span></p>
        <p>“Have you forgotten what came of sending Juliet to
            Queen’s?” she asked significantly.</p>
        <p>If Emily was not allowed to take up the Entrance
            classes, Perry had no one to say him nay and he went at
            them with the same dogged determination he showed in
            all other matters. Perry’s status at New Moon had
            changed subtly and steadily. Aunt Elizabeth had ceased
            to refer scornfully to him as “a hired boy.” Even she
            recognised that though he was still indubitably a hired
            boy he was not going to remain one, and she no longer
            objected to Laura’s patching up his ragged bits of clothing,
            or to Emily’s helping him with his lessons in the
            kitchen after supper, nor did she growl when Cousin
            Jimmy began to pay him a certain small wage—though
            older boys than Perry were still glad to put in the winter
            months choring for board and lodging in some comfortable
            home. If a future premier was in the making at
            New Moon Aunt Elizabeth wanted to have some small
            share in the making. It was credible and commendable
            that a boy should have ambitions. A girl was an entirely
            different matter. A girl’s place was at home.</p>
        <p>Emily helped Perry work out algebra problems and
            heard his lessons in French and Latin. She picked up
            more thus than Aunt Elizabeth would have approved and
            more still when the Entrance pupils talked those languages
            in school. It was quite an easy matter for a girl
            who had once upon a time invented a language of her
            own. When George Bates, by way of showing off, asked
            her one day in French—<em>his</em> French, of which Mr. Carpenter
            had once said doubtfully that perhaps God might understand
            it—“Have you the ink of my grandmother and
            the shoebrush of my cousin and the umbrella of my
            aunt’s husband in your desk?” Emily retorted quite as
            glibly and <em>quite</em> as Frenchily, “No, but I have the pen of
            your father and the cheese of the innkeeper and the towel
            of your uncle’s maidservant in my basket.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_312">312</a></span></p>
        <p>To console herself for her disappointment in regard
            to the Entrance class Emily wrote more poetry than ever.
            It was especially delightful to write poetry on a winter
            evening when the storm winds howled without and
            heaped the garden and orchard with big ghostly drifts,
            starred over with rabbits’ candles. She also wrote several
            stories—desperate love affairs wherein she struggled
            heroically against the difficulties of affectionate dialogue;
            tales of bandits and pirates—Emily liked these because
            there was no necessity for bandits and pirates to converse
            lovingly; tragedies of earls and countesses whose conversation
            she dearly loved to pepper with scraps of
            French; and a dozen other subjects she didn’t know anything
            about. She also meditated beginning a novel but
            decided it would be too hard to get enough paper for it.
            The letter-bills were all done now and the Jimmy-books
            were not big enough, though a new one always appeared
            mysteriously in her school basket when the old one was
            almost full. Cousin Jimmy seemed to have an uncanny
            prescience of the proper time—that was part of his Jimmyness.</p>
        <p>Then one night, as she lay in her lookout bed and
            watched a full moon gleaming lustrously from a cloudless
            sky across the valley, she had a sudden dazzling idea.</p>
        <p>She would send her latest poem to the Charlottetown
            <cite>Enterprise</cite>.
        </p>
        <p>The <cite>Enterprise</cite> had a Poet’s Corner where “original”
            verses were frequently printed. Privately Emily thought
            her own were quite as good—as probably they were, for
            most of the <cite>Enterprise</cite> “poems” were sad trash.</p>
        <p>Emily was so excited over the idea that she could not
            sleep for the greater part of the night—and didn’t want
            to. It was glorious to lie there, thrilling in the darkness,
            and picture the whole thing out. She saw her verses in
            print signed E. Byrd Starr—she saw Aunt Laura’s eyes
            shining with pride—she saw Mr. Carpenter pointing them
            out to strangers—“the work of a pupil of mine, by gad”<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_313">313</a></span>—she
            saw all her schoolmates envying her or admiring,
            according to type—she saw herself with one foot at least
            firmly planted on the ladder of fame—one hill at least of
            the Alpine Path crested, with a new and glorious prospect
            opening therefrom.</p>
        <p>Morning came. Emily went to school, so absent-minded
            because of her secret that she did badly in everything
            and was raged at by Mr. Carpenter. But it all
            slipped off her like the proverbial water off a duck’s back.
            Her body was in Blair Water school but her spirit was in
            kingdoms empyreal.</p>
        <p>As soon as school was out she betook herself to the
            garret with half a sheet of blue-lined notepaper. Very
            painstakingly she copied down the poem, being especially
            careful to dot every <em>i</em> and cross every <em>t</em>. She wrote it
            on both sides of the paper, being in blissful ignorance of
            any taboo thereon. Then she read it aloud delightedly,
            not omitting the title <i>Evening Dreams</i>. There was one
            line in it she tasted two or three times:</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">The haunting elfin music of the air.</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>“I think that line is <em>very</em> good,” said Emily. “I wonder
            now how I happened to think of it.”</p>
        <p>She mailed her poem the next day and lived in a delicious
            mystic rapture until the following Saturday.
            When the <cite>Enterprise</cite> came she opened it with tremulous
            eagerness and ice-cold fingers, and turned to the Poet’s
            Corner. Now for her great moment!</p>
        <p>There was not a sign of an Evening Dream about it!</p>
        <p>Emily threw down the <cite>Enterprise</cite> and fled to the garret
            dormer where, face downward on the old haircloth sofa,
            she wept out her bitterness of disappointment. She
            drained the draught of failure to the very dregs. It was
            horribly real and tragic to her. She felt exactly as if she
            had been slapped in the face. She was crushed in the
            very dust of humiliation and was sure she could never
            rise again.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_314">314</a></span></p>
        <p>How thankful she was that she hadn’t told Teddy anything
            about it—she had been so strongly tempted to, and
            only refrained because she didn’t want to spoil the dramatic
            surprise of the moment when she would show him
            the verses with her name signed to them. She <em>had</em> told
            Perry, and Perry was furious when he saw her tear-stained
            face later on in the dairy, as they strained the
            milk together. Ordinarily Emily loved this, but to-night
            the savour had gone out of the world. Even the milky
            splendour of the still, mild winter evening and the purple
            bloom over the hillside woods that presaged a thaw could
            not give her the accustomed soul-thrill.</p>
        <p>“I’m going to Charlottetown if I have to walk and I’ll
            bust that <cite>Enterprise</cite> editor’s head,” said Perry, with the
            expression which, thirty years later, warned the members
            of his party to scatter for cover.</p>
        <p>“That wouldn’t be any use,” said Emily drearily.
            “He didn’t think it good enough to print—that is what
            hurts me so, Perry—he didn’t think it any good. Busting
            his head wouldn’t change <em>that</em>.”</p>
        <p>It took her a week to recover from the blow. Then
            she wrote a story in which the editor of the <cite>Enterprise</cite>
            played the part of a dark and desperate villain who found
            lodging eventually behind prison bars. This got the
            venom out of her system and she forgot all about him
            in the delight of writing a poem addressed to “Sweet
            Lady April.” But I question if she ever really forgave
            him—even when she discovered eventually that you must
            <em>not</em> write on both sides of the paper—even when she read
            over <i>Evening Dreams</i> a year later and wondered how she
            could ever have thought it any good.
        </p>
        <p>This sort of thing was happening frequently now.
            Every time she read her little hoard of manuscripts
            over she found some of which the fairy gold had unaccountably
            turned to withered leaves, fit only for the
            burning. Emily burned them,—but it hurt her a little.
            Outgrowing things we love is never a pleasant process.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_315">315</a></span>
            <h2><a id="xxix" />CHAPTER XXIX<br />
                <span>Sacrilege</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">T</span>HERE had been several clashes between Aunt
            Elizabeth and Emily that winter and spring.
            Generally Aunt Elizabeth came out victorious; there was
            that in her that would not be denied the satisfaction of
            having her own way even in trifling matters. But once
            in a while she came up against that curious streak of
            granite in Emily’s composition which was unyielding and
            unbendable and unbreakable. Mary Murray, of a hundred
            years agone, had been, so family chronicle ran, a
            gentle and submissive creature generally; but she had that
            same streak in her, as her “Here I Stay” abundantly
            testified. When Aunt Elizabeth tried conclusions with
            that element in Emily she always got the worst of it.
            Yet she did not learn wisdom therefrom but pursued her
            policy of repression all the more rigorously; for it occasionally
            came home to her, as Laura let down tucks,
            that Emily was on the verge of beginning to grow up
            and that various breakers and reefs loomed ahead, ominously
            magnified in the mist of unseen years. Emily
            must not be allowed to get out of hand now, lest later
            on she make shipwreck as her mother had done—or as
            Elizabeth Murray firmly believed she had done. There
            were, in short, to be no more elopements from New
            Moon.</p>
        <p>One of the things they fell out about was the fact
            that Emily, as Aunt Elizabeth discovered one day, was
            in the habit of using more of her egg money to buy
            paper than Aunt Elizabeth approved of. What did
            Emily do with so much paper? They had a fuss over
            this and eventually Aunt Elizabeth discovered that Emily
            was writing stories. Emily had been writing stories<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_316">316</a></span>
            all winter under Aunt Elizabeth’s very nose and Aunt
            Elizabeth had never suspected it. She had fondly supposed
            that Emily was writing school compositions.
            Aunt Elizabeth knew in a vague way that Emily wrote
            silly rhymes which she called “poetry” but this did not
            worry her especially. Jimmy made up a lot of similar
            trash. It was foolish but harmless and Emily would
            doubtless outgrow it. Jimmy had not outgrown it, to be
            sure, but then his accident—Elizabeth always went a little
            sick in soul when she remembered it—had made him
            more or less a child for life.</p>
        <p>But writing stories was a very different thing and
            Aunt Elizabeth was horrified. Fiction of any kind was
            an abominable thing. Elizabeth Murray had been
            trained up in this belief in her youth and in her age she
            had not departed from it. She honestly thought that it
            was a wicked and sinful thing in anyone to play cards,
            dance, or go to the theatre, read or write novels, and in
            Emily’s case there was a worse feature—it was the Starr
            coming out in her—Douglas Starr especially. No Murray
            of New Moon had ever been guilty of writing “stories”
            or of ever wanting to write them. It was an alien
            growth that must be pruned off ruthlessly. Aunt Elizabeth
            applied the pruning shears; and found no pliant,
            snippable root but that same underlying streak of granite.
            Emily was respectful and reasonable and above-board;
            she bought no more paper with egg money; but she told
            Aunt Elizabeth that she could not give up writing stories
            and she went right on writing them, on pieces of brown
            wrapping paper and the blank backs of circulars which
            agricultural machinery firms sent Cousin Jimmy.</p>
        <p>“Don’t you know that it is wicked to write novels?”
            demanded Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“Oh, I’m not writing novels—yet,” said Emily. “I
            can’t get enough paper. These are just short stories.
            And it isn’t wicked—Father liked novels.”</p>
        <p>“Your father—” began Aunt Elizabeth, and stopped.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_317">317</a></span>
            She remembered that Emily had “acted up” before now
            when anything derogatory was said of her father. But
            the very fact that she felt mysteriously compelled to
            stop annoyed Elizabeth, who had said what seemed good
            to her all her life at New Moon without much regard
            for other people’s feelings.</p>
        <p>“You will not write any more of <em>this stuff</em>,” Aunt
            Elizabeth contemptuously flourished “The Secret of the
            Castle” under Emily’s nose. “I forbid you—remember,
            I forbid you.”</p>
        <p>“Oh, I must write, Aunt Elizabeth,” said Emily
            gravely, folding her slender, beautiful hands on the table
            and looking straight into Aunt Elizabeth’s angry face
            with the steady, unblinking gaze which Aunt Ruth called
            unchildlike. “You see, it’s this way. It is <em>in</em> me. I
            can’t help it. And Father said I was <em>always</em> to keep on
            writing. He said I would be famous some day.
            Wouldn’t you like to have a famous niece, Aunt Elizabeth?”</p>
        <p>“I am not going to argue the matter,” said Aunt
            Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“I’m not arguing—only explaining.” Emily was exasperatingly
            respectful. “I just want you to understand
            how it is that I <em>have</em> to go on writing stories, even though
            I am so very sorry you don’t approve.”</p>
        <p>“If you don’t give up this—this worse than nonsense,
            Emily, I’ll—I’ll—”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth stopped, not knowing what to say she
            would do. Emily was too big now to be slapped or shut
            up; and it was no use to say, as she was tempted to,
            “I’ll send you away from New Moon,” because Elizabeth
            Murray knew perfectly well she would not send Emily
            away from New Moon—<em>could</em> not send her away, indeed,
            though this knowledge was as yet only in her feelings
            and had not been translated into her intellect. She
            only felt that she was helpless and it angered her; but
            Emily was mistress of the situation and calmly went on<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_318">318</a></span>
            writing stories. If Aunt Elizabeth had asked her to give
            up crocheting lace or making molasses taffy, or eating
            Aunt Laura’s delicious drop cookies, Emily would have
            done so wholly and cheerfully, though she loved these
            things. But to give up writing stories—why, Aunt
            Elizabeth might as well have asked her to give up breathing.
            <em>Why</em> couldn’t she understand? It seemed so simple
            and indisputable to Emily.
        </p>
        <p>“Teddy can’t help making pictures and Ilse can’t help
            reciting and I can’t help writing. <em>Don’t</em> you see, Aunt
            Elizabeth?”</p>
        <p>“I see that you are an ungrateful and disobedient
            child,” said Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>This hurt Emily horribly, but she could not give in;
            and there continued to be a sense of soreness and disapproval
            between her and Aunt Elizabeth in all the little
            details of daily life that poisoned existence more or less
            for the child, who was so keenly sensitive to her environment
            and to the feelings with which her kindred regarded
            her. Emily felt it all the time—except when she was
            writing her stories. <em>Then</em> she forgot everything, roaming
            in some enchanted country between the sun and
            moon, where she saw wonderful beings whom she tried
            to describe and wonderful deeds which she tried to record,
            coming back to the candle-lit kitchen with a somewhat
            dazed sense of having been years in No-Man’s Land.</p>
        <p>She did not even have Aunt Laura to back her up in
            the matter. Aunt Laura thought Emily ought to yield
            in such an unimportant matter and please Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“But it’s not unimportant,” said Emily despairingly.
            “It’s the most important thing in the world to me, Aunt
            Laura. Oh, I thought <em>you</em> would understand.”</p>
        <p>“I understand that you like to do it, dear, and I think
            it’s a harmless enough amusement. But it seems to annoy
            Elizabeth some way and I do think you might give it
            up on that account. It is not as if it was anything
            that mattered much—it <em>is</em> really a waste of time.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_319">319</a></span></p>
        <p>“No—no,” said distressed Emily. “Why, some day,
            Aunt Laura, I’ll write real books—and make lots of
            money,” she added, sensing that the businesslike Murrays
            measured the nature of most things on a cash basis.</p>
        <p>Aunt Laura smiled indulgently.</p>
        <p>“I’m afraid you’ll never grow rich that way, dear.
            It would be wiser to employ your time preparing yourself
            for some useful work.”</p>
        <p>It was maddening to be condescended to like this—maddening
            that nobody could see that she <em>had</em> to write—maddening
            to have Aunt Laura so sweet and loving and
            stupid about it.</p>
        <p>“Oh,” thought Emily bitterly, “if that hateful <cite>Enterprise</cite>
            editor had printed my piece they’d have believed
            <em>then</em>.”
        </p>
        <p>“At any rate,” advised Aunt Laura, “don’t let Elizabeth
            <em>see</em> you writing them.”
        </p>
        <p>But somehow Emily could not take this prudent advice.
            There <em>had</em> been occasions when she had connived
            with Aunt Laura to hoodwink Aunt Elizabeth on some
            little matter, but she found she could not do it in this.
            <em>This</em> had to be open and above-board. She <em>must</em> write
            stories—and Aunt Elizabeth <em>must</em> know it—that was the
            way it had to be. She could not be false to herself in
            this—she could not <em>pretend</em> to be false.
        </p>
        <p>She wrote her father all about it—poured out her
            bitterness and perplexity to him in what, though she did
            not suspect it at the time, was the last letter she was to
            write him. There was a large bundle of letters by now
            on the old sofa shelf in the garret—for Emily had written
            many letters to her father besides those which have
            been chronicled in this history. There were a great
            many paragraphs about Aunt Elizabeth in them, most of
            them very uncomplimentary and some of them, as Emily
            herself would have owned when her first bitterness was
            past, overdrawn and exaggerated. They had been written
            in moments when her hurt and angry soul demanded<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_320">320</a></span>
            some outlet for its emotion and barbed her pen with
            venom. Emily was mistress of a subtly malicious style
            when she chose to be. After she had written them the
            hurt had ceased and she thought no more about them.
            But they remained.</p>
        <p>And one spring day, Aunt Elizabeth, housecleaning in
            the garret while Emily played happily with Teddy at
            the Tansy Patch, found the bundle of letters on the sofa
            shelf, sat down, and read them all.</p>
        <p>Elizabeth Murray would never have read any writing
            belonging to a grown person. But it never occurred to
            her that there was anything dishonourable in reading the
            letters wherein Emily, lonely and—sometimes—misunderstood,
            had poured out her heart to the father she had
            loved and been loved by, so passionately and understandingly.
            Aunt Elizabeth thought she had a right to
            know everything that this pensioner on her bounty did,
            said, or thought. She read the letters and she found
            out what Emily thought of her—of her, Elizabeth Murray,
            autocrat unchallenged, to whom no one had ever
            dared to say anything uncomplimentary. Such an experience
            is no pleasanter at sixty than at sixteen. As
            Elizabeth Murray folded up the last letter her hands
            trembled—with anger, and something underneath it that
            was not anger.</p>
        <p>“Emily, your Aunt Elizabeth wants to see you in the
            parlour,” said Aunt Laura, when Emily returned from
            the Tansy Patch, driven home by the thin grey rain that
            had begun to drift over the greening fields. Her tone—her
            sorrowful look—warned Emily that mischief was in
            the wind. Emily had no idea what mischief—she could
            not recall anything she had done recently that should
            bring her up before the tribunal Aunt Elizabeth occasionally
            held in the parlour. It must be serious when it
            was in the parlour. For reasons best known to herself
            Aunt Elizabeth held super-serious interviews like this in
            the parlour. Possibly it was because she felt obscurely<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_321">321</a></span>
            that the photographs of the Murrays on the walls gave
            her a backing she needed when dealing with this hop-out-of-kin;
            for the same reason Emily detested a trial
            in the parlour. She always felt on such occasions like a
            very small mouse surrounded by a circle of grim cats.</p>
        <p>Emily skipped across the big hall, pausing, in spite
            of her alarm, to glance at the charming red world
            through the crimson glass; then pushed open the parlour
            door. The room was dim, for only one of the slat blinds
            was partially raised. Aunt Elizabeth was sitting bolt upright
            in Grandfather Murray’s black horsehair-chair.
            Emily looked at her stern, angry face first—and then at
            her lap.</p>
        <p>Emily understood.</p>
        <p>The first thing she did was to retrieve her precious
            letters. With the quickness of light she sprang to Aunt
            Elizabeth, snatched up the bundle and retreated to the
            door; there she faced Aunt Elizabeth, her face blazing
            with indignation and outrage. Sacrilege had been committed—the
            most sacred shrine of her soul had been profaned.</p>
        <p>“How dare you?” she said. “How dare you touch
            <em>my private papers</em>, Aunt Elizabeth?”
        </p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth had not expected <em>this</em>. She had looked
            for confusion—dismay—shame—fear—for anything
            but this righteous indignation, as if <em>she</em>, forsooth, were
            the guilty one. She rose.</p>
        <p>“Give me those letters, Emily.”</p>
        <p>“No, I will not,” said Emily, white with anger, as
            she clasped her hands around the bundle. “They are
            mine and Father’s—not yours. You had no right to
            touch them. I will <em>never</em> forgive you!”</p>
        <p>This was turning the tables with a vengeance. Aunt
            Elizabeth was so dumfounded that she hardly knew what
            to say or do. Worst of all, a most unpleasant doubt of
            her own conduct suddenly assailed her—driven home
            perhaps by the intensity and earnestness of Emily’s accusation.<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_322">322</a></span>
            For the first time in her life it occurred to
            Elizabeth Murray to wonder if she had done rightly.
            For the first time in her life she felt ashamed; and the
            shame made her furious. It was intolerable that <em>she</em>
            should be made to feel ashamed.</p>
        <p>For the moment they faced each other, not as aunt
            and niece, not as child and adult, but as two human
            beings each with hatred for the other in her heart—Elizabeth
            Murray, tall and austere and thin-lipped;
            Emily Starr, white of face, her eyes pools of black
            flame, her trembling arms hugging her letters.</p>
        <p>“So <em>this</em> is your gratitude,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
            “You were a penniless orphan—I took you to my home—I
            have given you shelter and food and education and
            kindness—and <em>this</em> is my thanks.”</p>
        <p>As yet Emily’s tempest of anger and resentment prevented
            her from feeling the sting of this.</p>
        <p>“You did not <em>want</em> to take me,” she said. “You made
            me draw lots and you took me because the lot fell to
            you. You knew some of you had to take me because
            you were the proud Murrays and couldn’t let a relation
            go to an orphan asylum. Aunt Laura loves me now but
            you don’t. So why should I love you?”</p>
        <p>“Ungrateful, thankless child!”</p>
        <p>“I’m <em>not</em> thankless. I’ve tried to be good—I’ve tried
            to obey you and please you—I do all the chores I can to
            help pay for my keep. And you had <em>no business</em> to read
            my letters to Father.”</p>
        <p>“They are disgraceful letters—and must be destroyed,”
            said Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“No,” Emily clasped them tighter. “I’d sooner burn
            myself. You shall not have them, Aunt Elizabeth.”</p>
        <p>She felt her brows drawing together—she felt the
            Murray look on her face—she knew she was conquering.</p>
        <p>Elizabeth Murray turned paler, if that were possible.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_323">323</a></span>
            There were times when she could give the Murray look
            herself; it was not that which dismayed her—it was the
            uncanny something which seemed to peer out behind
            the Murray look that always broke her will. She trembled—faltered—yielded.</p>
        <p>“Keep your letters,” she said bitterly, “and scorn the
            old woman who opened her home to you.”</p>
        <p>She went out of the parlour. Emily was left mistress
            of the field. And all at once her victory turned to dust
            and ashes in her mouth.</p>
        <p>She went up to her own room, hid her letters in the
            cupboard over the mantel, and then crept up on her bed,
            huddling down in a little heap with her face buried in
            her pillow. She was still sore with a sense of outrage—but
            underneath another pain was beginning to ache terribly.</p>
        <p>Something in her was hurt because she had hurt Aunt
            Elizabeth—for she felt that Aunt Elizabeth, under all
            her anger, was <em>hurt</em>. This surprised Emily. She would
            have expected Aunt Elizabeth to be angry, of course, but
            she would never have supposed it would affect her in
            any other way. Yet she had seen something in Aunt
            Elizabeth’s eyes when she had flung that last stinging
            sentence at her—something that spoke of bitter hurt.</p>
        <p>“Oh! Oh!” gasped Emily. She began to cry chokingly
            into her pillow. She was so wretched that she
            could not get out of herself and watch her own suffering
            with a sort of enjoyment in its drama—set her mind to
            analyse her feelings—and when Emily was as wretched
            as that she was very wretched indeed and wholly comfortless.
            Aunt Elizabeth would not keep her at New
            Moon after a poisonous quarrel like this. She would
            send her away, of course. Emily believed this. Nothing
            was too horrible to believe just then. How could
            she live away from dear New Moon?</p>
        <p>“And I may have to live eighty years,” Emily moaned.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_324">324</a></span></p>
        <p>But worse even than this was the remembrance of
            that look in Aunt Elizabeth’s eyes.</p>
        <p>Her own sense of outrage and sacrilege ebbed away
            under the remembrance. She thought of all the things
            she had written her father about Aunt Elizabeth—sharp,
            bitter things, some of them just, some of them unjust.
            She began to feel that she should not have written them.
            It was true enough that Aunt Elizabeth had not loved
            her—had not wanted to take her to New Moon. But
            she <em>had</em> taken her and though it had been done in duty,
            not in love, the fact remained. It was no use for her
            to tell herself that it wasn’t as if the letters were written
            to any one living, to be seen and read by others. While
            she was under Aunt Elizabeth’s roof—while she owed
            the food she ate and the clothes she wore to Aunt Elizabeth—she
            should not say, even to her father, harsh
            things of her. A Starr should not have done it.</p>
        <p>“I must go and ask Aunt Elizabeth to forgive me,”
            thought Emily at last, all the passion gone out of her
            and only regret and repentance left. “I suppose she
            never will—she’ll hate me always now. But I must go.”</p>
        <p>She turned herself about—and then the door opened
            and Aunt Elizabeth entered. She came across the room
            and stood at the side of the bed, looking down at the
            grieved little face on the pillow—a face that in the dim,
            rainy twilight, with its tear-stains and black shadowed
            eyes, looked strangely mature and chiseled.</p>
        <p>Elizabeth Murray was still austere and cold. Her
            voice sounded stern; but she said an amazing thing.</p>
        <p>“Emily, I had no right to read your letters. I admit
            I was wrong. Will you forgive me?”</p>
        <p>“Oh!” The word was almost a cry. Aunt Elizabeth
            had at last discerned the way to conquer Emily. The
            latter lifted herself up, flung her arms about Aunt Elizabeth,
            and said chokingly,</p>
        <p>“Oh—Aunt Elizabeth—I’m sorry—I’m sorry—I<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_325">325</a></span>
            shouldn’t have written those things—but I wrote them
            when I was vexed—and I didn’t mean them <em>all</em>—truly,
            I didn’t mean the worst of them. Oh, you’ll believe <em>that</em>,
            won’t you, Aunt Elizabeth?”</p>
        <p>“I’d like to believe it, Emily.” An odd quiver passed
            through the tall, rigid form. “I—don’t like to think
            you—<em>hate</em> me—my sister’s child—little Juliet’s child.”</p>
        <p>“I don’t—oh, I don’t,” sobbed Emily. “And I’ll <em>love</em>
            you, Aunt Elizabeth, if you’ll let me—if you <em>want</em> me to.
            I didn’t think you cared. <em>Dear</em> Aunt Elizabeth.”</p>
        <p>Emily gave Aunt Elizabeth a fierce hug and a passionate
            kiss on the white, fine-wrinkled cheek. Aunt Elizabeth
            kissed her gravely on the brow in return and then
            said, as if closing the door on the whole incident,</p>
        <p>“You’d better wash your face and come down to
            supper.”</p>
        <p>But there was yet something to be cleared up.</p>
        <p>“Aunt Elizabeth,” whispered Emily. “I <em>can’t</em> burn
            those letters, you know—they belong to Father. But
            I’ll tell you what I will do. I’ll go over them all and put
            a star by anything I said about you and then I’ll add an
            explanatory footnote saying that I was mistaken.”</p>
        <p>Emily spent her spare time for several days putting in
            her “explanatory footnotes,” and then her conscience had
            rest. But when she again tried to write a letter to her
            father she found that it no longer meant anything to her.
            The sense of reality—nearness—of close communion had
            gone. Perhaps she had been outgrowing it gradually,
            as childhood began to merge into girlhood—perhaps the
            bitter scene with Aunt Elizabeth had only shaken into
            dust something out of which the spirit had already departed.
            But, whatever the explanation, it was not possible
            to write such letters any more. She missed them
            terribly but she could not go back to them. A certain
            door of life was shut behind her and could not be re-opened.</p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_326">326</a></span>
            <h2><a id="xxx" />CHAPTER XXX<br />
                <span>When the Curtain Lifted</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">I</span>T would be pleasant to be able to record that after the
            reconciliation in the lookout Emily and Aunt Elizabeth
            lived in entire amity and harmony. But the truth
            was that things went on pretty much the same as before.
            Emily went softly, and tried to mingle serpent’s wisdom
            and dove’s harmlessness in practical proportions, but their
            points of view were so different that there were bound to
            be clashes; they did not speak the same language, so there
            was bound to be misunderstanding.</p>
        <p>And yet there was a difference—a very vital difference.
            Elizabeth Murray had learned an important lesson—that
            there was not one law of fairness for children and another
            for grown-ups. She continued to be as autocratic as ever—but
            she did not do or say to Emily anything she would
            not have done or said to Laura had occasion called for
            it.</p>
        <p>Emily, on her side, had discovered the fact that, under
            all her surface coldness and sternness, Aunt Elizabeth
            really had an affection for her; and it was wonderful
            what a difference this made. It took the sting out of
            Aunt Elizabeth’s “ways” and words and healed entirely
            a certain little half-conscious sore spot that had been in
            Emily’s heart ever since the incident of the drawn slips at
            Maywood.</p>
        <p>“I don’t believe I’m a duty to Aunt Elizabeth any
            more,” she thought exultantly.</p>
        <p>Emily grew rapidly that summer in body, mind and
            soul. Life was delightful, growing richer every hour,
            like an unfolding rose. Forms of beauty filled her imagination
            and were transferred as best she could to paper,
            though they were never so lovely there, and Emily had<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_327">327</a></span>
            the heartbreaking moments of the true artist who discovers
            that</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">“Never on painter’s canvas lives</div>
                    <div class="line">The charm of his fancy’s dream.”</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>Much of her “old stuff” she burned; even the <i>Child of
                the Sea</i> was reduced to ashes. But the little pile of manuscripts
            in the mantel cupboard of the lookout was growing
            steadily larger. Emily kept her scribblings there
            now; the sofa shelf in the garret was desecrated; and, besides,
            she felt somehow that Aunt Elizabeth would never
            meddle with her “private papers” again, no matter where
            they were kept. She did not go now to the garret to read
            or write or dream; her own dear lookout was the best
            place for that. She loved that quaint, little old room
            intensely; it was almost like a living thing to her—a
            sharer in gladness—a comforter in sorrow.</p>
        <p>Ilse was growing, too, blossoming out into strange
            beauty and brilliance, knowing no law but her own
            pleasure, recognizing no authority but her own whim.
            Aunt Laura worried over her.</p>
        <p>“She will be a woman so soon—and <em>who</em> will look after
            her? Allan won’t.”</p>
        <p>“I’ve no patience with Allan,” said Aunt Elizabeth
            grimly. “He is always ready to hector and advise other
            people. He’d better look at home. He’ll come over here
            and order me to do this or that, or <em>not</em> to do it, for Emily;
            but if I say one word to him about Ilse he blows the roof
            off. The idea of a man turning against his daughter
            and neglecting her as he has neglected Ilse simply because
            her mother wasn’t all she ought to be—as if the poor child
            was to blame for <em>that</em>.”</p>
        <p>“S—s—sh,” said Aunt Laura, as Emily crossed the
            sitting-room on her way upstairs.</p>
        <p>Emily smiled sadly to herself. Aunt Laura needn’t be
            “s-s-sh’ing.” There was nothing left for her to find out
            about Ilse’s mother—nothing, except the most important<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_328">328</a></span>
            thing of all, which neither she nor anybody else living
            knew. For Emily had never surrendered her conviction
            that the whole truth about Beatrice Burnley was not
            known. She often worried about it when she lay curled
            up in her black walnut bed o’nights, listening to the moan
            of the gulf and the Wind Woman singing in the trees,
            and drifted into sleep wishing intensely that she could
            solve the dark old mystery and dissolve its legend of
            shame and bitterness.</p>
        <p>Emily went rather languidly upstairs to the lookout.
            She meant to write some more of her story, <i>The Ghost of
                the Well</i>, wherein she was weaving the old legend of the
            well in the Lee field; but somehow interest was lacking;
            she put the manuscript back into the mantel cupboard;
            she read over a letter from Dean Priest which had come
            that day, one of his fat, jolly, whimsical, delightful letters
            wherein he had told her that he was coming to stay a
            month with his sister at Blair Water. She wondered
            why this announcement did not excite her more. She
            was tired—her head was aching. Emily couldn’t remember
            ever having had a headache before. Since she
            could not write she decided to lie down and be <em>Lady Trevanion</em>
            for awhile. Emily was <em>Lady Trevanion</em> very
            often that summer, in one of the dream lives she had
            begun to build up for herself. <em>Lady Trevanion</em> was the
            wife of an English earl and, besides being a famous
            novelist, was a member of the British House of Commons—where
            she always appeared in black velvet with a
            stately coronet of pearls on her dark hair. She was the
            only woman in the House and, as this was before the days
            of the suffragettes, she had to endure many sneers and
            innuendoes and insults from the ungallant males around
            her. Emily’s favourite dream scene was where she rose
            to make her first speech—a wonderfully thrilling event.
            As Emily found it difficult to do justice to the scene in
            any ideas of her own, she always fell back on “Pitt’s reply
            to Walpole,” which she had found in her <cite>Royal Reader</cite>,<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_329">329</a></span>
            and declaimed it, with suitable variations. The insolent
            speaker who had provoked <em>Lady Trevanion</em> into speech
            had sneered at her as a <em>woman</em>, and <em>Lady Trevanion</em>, a
            magnificent creature in her velvet and pearls, rose to her
            feet, amid hushed and dramatic silence, and said,</p>
        <p>“The atrocious crime of being a <em>woman</em> which the honourable
            member has, with such spirit and decency,
            charged upon me, I shall attempt neither to palliate nor
            deny, but shall content myself with wishing that I may
            be one of those whose follies cease with their <em>sex</em> and <em>not</em>
            one of that number who are ignorant in spite of <em>manhood</em>
            and experience.”</p>
        <p>(Here she was always interrupted by thunders of applause.)</p>
        <p>But the savour was entirely lacking in this scene today
            and by the time Emily had reached the line, “But <em>womanhood</em>,
            Sir, is not my only crime”—she gave up in disgust
            and fell to worrying over Ilse’s mother again, mixed up
            with some uneasy speculations regarding the climax of
            her story about the ghost of the well, mingled with her
            unpleasant physical sensations.</p>
        <p>Her eyes hurt her when she moved them. She was
            chilly, although the July day was hot. She was still lying
            there when Aunt Elizabeth came up to ask why she
            hadn’t gone to bring the cows home from the pasture.</p>
        <p>“I—I didn’t know it was so late,” said Emily confusedly.
            “I—my head aches, Aunt Elizabeth.”</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth rolled up the white cotton blind and
            looked at Emily. She noted her flushed face—she felt
            her pulse. Then she bade her shortly to stay where she
            was, went down, and sent Perry for Dr. Burnley.</p>
        <p>“Probably she’s got the measles,” said the doctor as
            gruffly as usual. Emily was not yet sick enough to be
            gentle over. “There’s an outbreak of them at Derry
            Pond. Has she had any chance to catch them?”</p>
        <p>“Jimmy Joe Belle’s two children were here one afternoon
            about ten days ago. She played with them—she’s<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_330">330</a></span>
            always playing round with people she’s no business to
            associate with. I haven’t heard that they were or have
            been sick though.”</p>
        <p>Jimmy Joe Belle, when asked plainly, confessed that
            his “young ones” had come out with measles the very day
            after they had been at New Moon. There was therefore
            not much doubt as to Emily’s malady.</p>
        <p>“It’s a bad kind of measles apparently,” the doctor
            said. “Quite a number of the Derry Pond children have
            died of it. Mostly French though—the kids would be
            out of bed when they had no business to be and caught
            cold. I don’t think you need worry about Emily. She
            might as well have measles and be done with it. Keep
            her warm and keep the room dark. I’ll run over in the
            morning.”</p>
        <p>For three or four days nobody was much alarmed.
            Measles was a disease everybody had to have. Aunt
            Elizabeth looked after Emily well and slept on a sofa
            which had been moved into the lookout. She even left
            the window open at night. In spite of this—perhaps
            Aunt Elizabeth thought because of it—Emily grew
            steadily sicker, and on the fifth day a sharp change for
            the worse took place. Her fever went up rapidly, delirium
            set in; Dr. Burnley came, looked anxious, scowled,
            changed the medicine.</p>
        <p>“I’m sent for to a bad case of pneumonia at White
            Cross,” he said, “and I have to go to Charlottetown in
            the morning to be present at Mrs. Jackwell’s operation.
            I promised her I would go. I’ll be back in the evening.
            Emily is very restless—that high-strung system of hers
            is evidently very sensitive to fever. What’s that nonsense
            she’s talking about the Wind Woman?”</p>
        <p>“Oh, I don’t know,” said Aunt Elizabeth worriedly.
            “She’s always talking nonsense like that, even when she’s
            well. Allan, tell me plainly—is there any danger?”</p>
        <p>“There’s always danger in this type of measles. I
            don’t like these symptoms—the eruption should be out<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_331">331</a></span>
            by now and there’s no sign of it. Her fever is very
            high—but I don’t think we need be alarmed yet. If I
            thought otherwise I wouldn’t go to town. Keep her as
            quiet as possible—humour her whims if you can—I don’t
            like that mental disturbance. She looks terribly distressed—seems
            to be worrying over something. Has she
            had anything on her mind of late?”</p>
        <p>“Not that I know of,” said Aunt Elizabeth. She had
            a sudden bitter realisation that she really did not know
            much about the child’s mind. Emily would never have
            come to her with any of her little troubles and worries.</p>
        <p>“Emily, what is bothering you?” asked Dr. Burnley
            softly—very softly. He took the hot, tossing, little
            hand gently, oh, so gently, in his big one.</p>
        <p>Emily looked up with wild, fever-bright eyes.</p>
        <p>“She couldn’t have done it—she <em>couldn’t</em> have done
            it.”</p>
        <p>“Of course she couldn’t,” said the doctor cheerily.
            “Don’t worry—she didn’t do it.”</p>
        <p>His eyes telegraphed, “What does she mean?” to
            Elizabeth, but Elizabeth shook her head.</p>
        <p>“Who are you talking about—dear?” she asked
            Emily. It was the first time she had called Emily
            “dear.”</p>
        <p>But Emily was off on another tack. The well in
            Mr. Lee’s field was open, she declared. Someone
            would be sure to fall into it. Why didn’t Mr. Lee
            shut it up? Dr. Burnley left Aunt Elizabeth trying
            to reassure Emily on that point and hurried away to
            White Cross.</p>
        <p>At the door he nearly fell over Perry who was curled
            up on the sandstone slab, hugging his sunburned legs
            desperately. “How is Emily?” he demanded, grasping
            the skirt of the doctor’s coat.</p>
        <p>“Don’t bother me—I’m in a hurry,” growled the
            doctor.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_332">332</a></span></p>
        <p>“You tell me how Emily is or I’ll hang on to your
            coat till the seams go,” said Perry stubbornly. “I
            can’t get one word of sense out of them old maids.
            <em>You</em> tell me.”
        </p>
        <p>“She’s a sick child but I’m not seriously alarmed
            about her yet.” The doctor gave his coat another
            tug—but Perry held on for a last word.</p>
        <p>“You’ve <em>got</em> to cure her,” he said. “If anything
            happens to Emily I’ll drown myself in the pond—mind
            that.”</p>
        <p>He let go so suddenly that Dr. Burnley nearly went
            headlong on the ground. Then Perry curled up on
            the doorstep again. He watched there until Laura
            and Cousin Jimmy had gone to bed and then he
            sneaked through the house and sat on the stairs, where
            he could hear any sound in Emily’s room. He sat
            there all night, with his fists clenched, as if keeping
            guard against an unseen foe.</p>
        <p>Elizabeth Murray watched by Emily until two
            o’clock, and then Laura took her place.</p>
        <p>“She has raved a great deal,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
            “I wish I knew what is worrying her—there <em>is</em> something,
            I feel sure. It isn’t all mere delirium. She
            keeps repeating ‘She couldn’t have done it’ in such
            imploring tones. I wonder oh, Laura, you remember
            the time I read her letters? Do you think she means
            me?”</p>
        <p>Laura shook her head. She had never seen Elizabeth
            so moved.</p>
        <p>“If the child—doesn’t get—better—” said Aunt
            Elizabeth. She said no more but went quickly out of
            the room.</p>
        <p>Laura sat down by the bed. She was pale and
            drawn with her own worry and fatigue—for she had
            not been able to sleep. She loved Emily as her own
            child and the awful dread that had possessed her heart
            would not lift for an instant. She sat there and<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_333">333</a></span>
            prayed mutely. Emily fell into a troubled slumber
            which lasted until the grey dawn crept into the lookout.
            Then she opened her eyes and looked at Aunt Laura—looked
            through her—looked beyond her.</p>
        <p>“I see her coming over the fields,” she said in a high,
            clear voice. “She is coming so gladly—she is singing—she
            is thinking of her baby—oh, keep her back—keep
            her back—she doesn’t see the well—it’s so dark
            she doesn’t see it—oh, she’s gone into it—she’s gone
            into it!”</p>
        <p>Emily’s voice rose in a piercing shriek which penetrated
            to Aunt Elizabeth’s room and brought her flying
            across the hall in her flannel nightgown.</p>
        <p>“What is wrong, Laura?” she gasped.</p>
        <p>Laura was trying to soothe Emily, who was struggling
            to sit up in bed. Her cheeks were crimson and
            her eyes had still the same far, wild look.</p>
        <p>“Emily—Emily, darling, you’ve just had a bad
            dream. The old Lee well isn’t open—nobody has fallen
            into it.”</p>
        <p>“Yes, somebody has,” said Emily shrilly. “<em>She</em>
            has—I saw her—I saw her—with the ace of hearts on
            her forehead. Do you think I don’t know her?”</p>
        <p>She fell back on her pillow, moaned, and tossed the
            hands which Laura Murray had loosened in her surprise.</p>
        <p>The two ladies of New Moon looked at each other
            across her bed in dismay—and something like terror.</p>
        <p>“Who did you see, Emily?” asked Aunt Elizabeth.</p>
        <p>“Ilse’s mother—of course. I always knew she didn’t
            do that dreadful thing. She fell into the old well—she’s
            there now—go—go and get her out, Aunt Laura.
            <em>Please.</em>”
        </p>
        <p>“Yes—yes, of course we’ll get her out, darling,”
            said Aunt Laura, soothingly.</p>
        <p>Emily sat up in bed and looked at Aunt Laura
            again. This time she did not look through her—she<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_334">334</a></span>
            looked into her. Laura Murray felt that those burning
            eyes read her soul.</p>
        <p>“You are lying to me,” cried Emily. “You don’t
            mean to try to get her out. You are only saying it to
            put me off. Aunt Elizabeth,” she suddenly turned and
            caught Aunt Elizabeth’s hand, “you’ll do it for me, won’t
            you? You’ll go and get her out of the old well, won’t
            you?”</p>
        <p>Elizabeth remembered that Dr. Burnley had said that
            Emily’s whims must be humoured. She was terrified
            by the child’s condition.</p>
        <p>“Yes, I’ll get her out if she is in there,” she said.
            Emily released her hand and sank down. The wild
            glare left her eyes. A great sudden calm fell over her
            anguished little face.</p>
        <p>“I know <em>you’ll</em> keep your word,” she said. “You are
            very hard—but <em>you</em> never lie, Aunt Elizabeth.”</p>
        <p>Elizabeth Murray went back to her own room and
            dressed herself with her shaking fingers. A little later,
            when Emily had fallen into a quiet sleep, Laura went
            down stairs and heard Elizabeth giving Cousin Jimmy
            some orders in the kitchen.</p>
        <p>“Elizabeth, you don’t really mean to have that old
            well searched?”</p>
        <p>“I do,” said Elizabeth resolutely. “I know it’s nonsense
            as well as you do. But I had to promise it to
            quiet her down—and I’ll keep my promise. You
            heard what she said—she believed I wouldn’t lie to her.
            Nor will I. Jimmy, you will go over to James Lee’s
            after breakfast and ask him to come here.”</p>
        <p>“How has she heard the story?” said Laura.</p>
        <p>“I don’t know—oh, some one has told her, of
            course—perhaps that old demon of a Nancy Priest.
            It doesn’t matter who. She <em>has</em> heard it and the thing
            is to keep her quiet. It isn’t so much of a job to put
            ladders in the well and get some one to go down it.
            The thing that matters is the absurdity of it.”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_335">335</a></span></p>
        <p>“We’ll be laughed at for a pair of fools,” protested
            Laura, whose share of Murray pride was in hot revolt.
            “And besides, it will open up all the old scandal
            again.”</p>
        <p>“No matter. I’ll keep my word to the child,” said
            Elizabeth stubbornly.</p>
        <hr class="tb" />
        <p>Allan Burnley came to New Moon at sunset, on his
            way home from town. He was tired, for he had been going
            night and day for over a week; he was more worried
            than he had admitted over Emily; he looked old
            and rather desolate as he stepped into the New Moon
            kitchen.</p>
        <p>Only Cousin Jimmy was there. Cousin Jimmy did
            not seem to have much to do, although it was a good
            hay-day and Jimmy Joe Belle and Perry were hauling
            in the great fragrant, sun-dried loads. He sat by the
            western window with a strange expression on his face.</p>
        <p>“Hello, Jimmy, where are the girls? And how is
            Emily?”</p>
        <p>“Emily is better,” said Cousin Jimmy. “The rash
            is out and her fever has gone down. I think she’s
            asleep.”</p>
        <p>“Good. We couldn’t afford to lose that little girl,
            could we, Jimmy?”</p>
        <p>“No,” said Jimmy. But he did not seem to want to
            talk about it. “Laura and Elizabeth are in the sitting-room.
            They want to see you.” He paused a minute
            and then added in an eerie way, “There is nothing hidden
            that shall not be revealed.”</p>
        <p>It occurred to Allan Burnley that Jimmy was acting
            mysteriously. And if Laura and Elizabeth wanted to
            see him why didn’t they come out? It wasn’t like them
            to stand on ceremony in this fashion. He pushed open
            the sitting-room door impatiently.</p>
        <p>Laura Murray was sitting on the sofa, leaning her
            head on its arm. He could not see her face but he felt<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_336">336</a></span>
            that she was crying. Elizabeth was sitting bolt upright
            on a chair. She wore her second-best black silk
            and her second-best lace cap. And she, too, had been
            crying. Dr. Burnley never attached much importance
            to Laura’s tears, easy as those of most women, but that
            Elizabeth Murray should cry—had he ever seen her cry
            before?</p>
        <p>The thought of Ilse flashed into his mind—his little
            neglected daughter. Had anything happened to Ilse?</p>
        <p>In one dreadful moment Allan Burnley paid the price
            of his treatment of his child.</p>
        <p>“What is wrong?” he exclaimed in his gruffest manner.</p>
        <p>“Oh, Allan,” said Elizabeth Murray. “God forgive
            us—God forgive us all!”</p>
        <p>“It—is—Ilse,” said Dr. Burnley, dully.</p>
        <p>“No—no—not Ilse.”</p>
        <p>Then she told him—she told him what had been
            found at the bottom of the old Lee well—she told him
            what had been the real fate of the lovely, laughing
            young wife whose name for twelve bitter years had
            never crossed his lips.</p>
        <hr class="tb" />
        <p>It was not until the next evening that Emily saw the
            doctor. She was lying in bed, weak and limp, red as a
            beet with the measles rash, but quite herself again.
            Allan Burnley stood by the bed and looked down at her.</p>
        <p>“Emily—dear little child—do you know what you have
            done for me? God knows how you did it.”</p>
        <p>“I thought you didn’t believe in God,” said Emily,
            wonderingly.</p>
        <p>“You have given me back my faith in Him, Emily.”</p>
        <p>“Why, what have I done?”</p>
        <p>Dr. Burnley saw that she had no remembrance of
            her delirium. Laura had told him that she had slept
            long and soundly after Elizabeth’s promise and had<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_337">337</a></span>
            awakened with fever gone and the eruption fast coming
            out. She had asked nothing and they had said nothing.</p>
        <p>“When you are better we will tell you all,” he said,
            smiling down at her. There was something very sorrowful
            in the smile—and yet something very sweet.</p>
        <p>“He is smiling with his eyes as well as his mouth
            now,” thought Emily.</p>
        <p>“How—how did she know?” whispered Laura Murray
            to him when he went down. “I—can’t understand
            it, Allan.”</p>
        <p>“Nor I. These things are beyond us, Laura,” he
            answered gravely. “I only know this child has given
            Beatrice back to me, stainless and beloved. It can be
            explained rationally enough perhaps. Emily has evidently
            been told about Beatrice and worried over it—her
            repeated ‘she couldn’t have done it’ shows that.
            And the tales of the old Lee well naturally made a deep
            impression on the mind of a sensitive child keenly
            alive to dramatic values. In her delirium she mixed this
            all up with the well-known fact of Jimmy’s tumble into
            the New Moon well—and the rest was coincidence. I
            would have explained it all so myself once—but now—now,
            Laura, I only say humbly, ‘A little child shall lead
            them.’”</p>
        <p>“Our stepmother’s mother was a Highland Scotchwoman.
            They said she had the second sight,” said
            Elizabeth. “I never believed in it—before.”</p>
        <p>The excitement of Blair Water had died away before
            Emily was deemed strong enough to hear the story.
            That which had been found in the old Lee well had been
            buried in the Mitchell plot at Shrewsbury and a white
            marble shaft, “Sacred to the memory of Beatrice Burnley,
            beloved wife of Allan Burnley,” had been erected.
            The sensation caused by Dr. Burnley’s presence every
            Sunday in the old Burnley pew had died away. On the
            first evening that Emily was allowed to sit up Aunt<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_338">338</a></span>
            Laura told her the whole story. Her manner of telling
            stripped it forever of the taint and innuendo left by
            Aunt Nancy.</p>
        <p>“I <em>knew</em> Ilse’s mother couldn’t have done it,” said
            Emily triumphantly.</p>
        <p>“We blame ourselves now for our lack of faith,”
            said Aunt Laura. “We should have known too—but
            it <em>did</em> seem black against her at the time, Emily. She
            was a bright, beautiful, merry creature—we thought
            her close friendship with her cousin natural and harmless.
            We know now it was so—but all these years since
            her disappearance we have believed differently. Mr.
            James Lee remembers clearly that the well was open the
            night of Beatrice’s disappearance. His hired man had
            taken the old rotten planks off it that evening, intending
            to put the new ones on at once. Then Robert Greerson’s
            house caught fire and he ran with everybody else to
            help save it. By the time it was out it was too dark
            to finish with the well, and the man said nothing about
            it until the morning. Mr. Lee was angry with him—he
            said it was a scandalous thing to leave a well uncovered
            like that. He went right down and put the
            new planks in place himself. He did not look down in
            the well—had he looked he could have seen nothing,
            for the ferns growing out from the sides screened the
            depths. It was just after harvest. No one was in the
            field again before the next spring. He never connected
            Beatrice’s disappearance with the open well—he wonders
            now that he didn’t. But you see—dear—there had
            been much malicious gossip—and Beatrice was <em>known</em>
            to have gone on board <i>The Lady of Winds</i>. It was
            taken for granted she never came off again. But she
            did—and went to her death in the old Lee field. It was
            a dreadful ending to her bright young life—but not so
            dreadful, after all, as what we believed. For twelve
            years we have wronged the dead. But—Emily—how
            could you <em>know</em>?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_339">339</a></span></p>
        <p>“I—don’t—know. When the doctor came in that
            day I couldn’t remember anything—but now it seems
            to me that I remember something—just as if I’d dreamed
            it—of <em>seeing</em> Ilse’s mother coming over the fields,
            singing. It was dark—and yet I could see the ace
            of hearts—oh, Aunty, I don’t know—I don’t like to
            think of it, some way.”</p>
        <p>“We won’t talk of it again,” said Aunt Laura gently.
            “It is one of the things best not talked of—one of God’s
            secrets.”</p>
        <p>“And Ilse—does her father love her now?” asked
            Emily eagerly.</p>
        <p>“Love her! He can’t love her enough. It seems
            as if he were pouring out on her at once all the shut-up
            love of those twelve years.”</p>
        <p>“He’ll likely spoil her now as much with indulgence
            as he did before with neglect,” said Elizabeth, coming
            in with Emily’s supper in time to hear Laura’s reply.</p>
        <p>“It will take a lot of love to spoil Ilse,” laughed
            Laura. “She’s drinking it up like a thirsty sponge.
            And she loves him wildly in return. There isn’t a
            trace of grudge in her over his long neglect.”</p>
        <p>“All the same,” said Elizabeth grimly, tucking pillows
            behind Emily’s back with a very gentle hand, oddly
            in contrast with her severe expression, “he won’t get
            off so easily. Ilse has run wild for twelve years. He
            won’t find it so easy to make her behave properly now—if
            he ever does.”</p>
        <p>“Love will do wonders,” said Aunt Laura softly.
            “Of course, Ilse is dying to come and see you, Emily.
            But she must wait until there is no danger of infection.
            I told her she might write—but when she found I would
            have to read it because of your eyes she said she’d wait
            till you could read it yourself. Evidently”—Laura
            laughed again—“evidently Ilse has much of importance
            to tell you.”</p>
        <p>“I didn’t know anybody could be as happy as I am<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_340">340</a></span>
            now,” said Emily. “And oh, Aunt Elizabeth, it is <em>so</em>
            nice to feel hungry again and to have something to
            <em>chew</em>.”
        </p>
        <div class="chapter">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <h2><a id="xxxi" />CHAPTER XXXI<br />
                <span>Emily’s Great Moment</span>
            </h2>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><span class="dropcap">E</span>MILY’S convalescence was rather slow. Physically
            she recovered with normal celerity but a
            certain spiritual and emotional languor persisted for a
            time. One cannot go down to the depths of hidden
            things and escape the penalty. Aunt Elizabeth said she
            “moped.” But Emily was too happy and contented to
            mope. It was just that life seemed to have lost its
            savour for a time, as if some spring of vital energy had
            been drained out of it and refilled slowly.</p>
        <p>She had, just then, no one to play with. Perry, Ilse
            and Teddy had all come down with measles the same
            day. Mrs. Kent at first declared bitterly that Teddy
            had caught them at New Moon, but all three had contracted
            them at a Sunday School picnic where Derry Pond
            children had been. That picnic infected all Blair
            Water. There was a perfect orgy of measles. Teddy
            and Ilse were only moderately ill, but Perry, who had
            insisted on going home to Aunt Tom at the first symptoms,
            nearly died. Emily was not allowed to know his
            danger until it had passed, lest it worry her too much.
            Even Aunt Elizabeth worried over it. She was surprised
            to discover how much they missed Perry round
            the place.</p>
        <p>It was fortunate for Emily that Dean Priest was
            in Blair Water during this forlorn time. His companionship
            was just what she needed and helped her
            wonderfully on the road to complete recovery. They<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_341">341</a></span>
            went for long walks together all over Blair Water, with
            Tweed woofing around them, and explored places and
            roads Emily had never seen before. They watched a
            young moon grow old, night by night; they talked in
            dim scented chambers of twilight over long red roads
            of mystery; they followed the lure of hill winds; they
            saw the stars rise and Dean told her all about them—the
            great constellations of the old myths. It was a
            wonderful month; but on the first day of Teddy’s convalescence
            Emily was off to the Tansy Patch for the
            afternoon and Jarback Priest walked—if he walked at
            all—alone.</p>
        <p>Aunt Elizabeth was extremely polite to him, though
            she did not like the Priests of Priest Pond overmuch,
            and never felt quite comfortable under the mocking
            gleam of “Jarback’s” green eyes and the faint derision
            of his smile, which seemed to make Murray pride and
            Murray traditions seem much less important than they
            really were.</p>
        <p>“He has the Priest flavour,” she told Laura, “though
            it isn’t as strong in him as in most of them. And he’s
            certainly helping Emily—she has begun to spunk up
            since he came.”</p>
        <p>Emily continued to “spunk up” and by September,
            when the measles epidemic was spent and Dean Priest
            had gone on one of his sudden swoops over to Europe
            for the autumn, she was ready for school again—a little
            taller, a little thinner, a little less childlike, with great
            grey shadowy eyes that had looked into death and read
            the riddle of a buried thing, and henceforth would
            hold in them some haunting, elusive remembrance of
            that world behind the veil. Dean Priest had seen it—Mr.
            Carpenter saw it when she smiled at him across
            her desk at school.</p>
        <p>“She’s left the childhood of her soul behind, though
            she is still a child in body,” he muttered.</p>
        <p>One afternoon amid the golden days and hazes of<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_342">342</a></span>
            October he asked her gruffly to let him see some of her
            verses.</p>
        <p>“I never meant to encourage you in it,” he said.
            “I don’t mean it now. Probably you can’t write a line
            of real poetry and never will. But let me see your stuff.
            If it’s hopelessly bad I’ll tell you so. I won’t have you
            wasting years striving for the unattainable—at least I
            won’t have it on my conscience if you do. If there’s
            any promise in it, I’ll tell you so just as honestly. And
            bring some of your stories, too—<em>they’re</em> trash yet, that’s
            certain, but I’ll see if they show just and sufficient cause
            for going on.”</p>
        <p>Emily spent a very solemn hour that evening, weighing,
            choosing, rejecting. To the little bundle of verse
            she added one of her Jimmy-books which contained, as
            she thought, her best stories. She went to school next
            day, so secret and mysterious that Ilse took offense,
            started in to call her names—and then stopped. Ilse had
            promised her father that she would try to break herself
            of the habit of calling names. She was making fairly
            good headway and her conversation, if less vivid, was
            beginning to approximate to New Moon standards.</p>
        <p>Emily made a sad mess of her lessons that day. She
            was nervous and frightened. She had a tremendous
            respect for Mr. Carpenter’s opinion. Father Cassidy
            had told her to keep on—Dean Priest had told her that
            some day she might really write—but perhaps they were
            only trying to be encouraging because they liked her and
            didn’t want to hurt her feelings. Emily knew Mr. Carpenter
            would not do this. No matter if he did like her
            he would nip her aspirations mercilessly if he thought the
            root of the matter was not in her. If, on the contrary,
            he bade her God-speed, she would rest content with that
            against the world and never lose heart in the face of
            any future criticism. No wonder the day seemed fraught
            with tremendous issues to Emily.</p>
        <p>When school was out Mr. Carpenter asked her to remain.<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_343">343</a></span>
            She was so white and tense that the other pupils
            thought she must have been found out by Mr. Carpenter
            in some especially dreadful behaviour and knew she was
            going to “catch it.” Rhoda Stuart flung her a significantly
            malicious smile from the porch—which Emily
            never even saw. She was, indeed, at a momentous bar,
            with Mr. Carpenter as supreme judge, and her whole
            future career—so she believed—hanging on his verdict.</p>
        <p>The pupils disappeared and a mellow sunshiny stillness
            settled over the old schoolroom. Mr. Carpenter took
            the little packet she had given him in the morning out of
            his desk, came down the aisle and sat in the seat before
            her, facing her. Very deliberately he settled his glasses
            astride his hooked nose, took out her manuscripts and
            began to read—or rather to glance over them, flinging
            scraps of comments, mingled with grunts, sniffs and
            hoots, at her as he glanced. Emily folded her cold hands
            on her desk and braced her feet against the legs of it to
            keep her knees from trembling. This was a very terrible
            experience. She wished she had never given her verses
            to Mr. Carpenter. They were no good—of course they
            were no good. Remember the editor of the <cite>Enterprise</cite>.</p>
        <p>“Humph!” said Mr. Carpenter. “<em>Sunset</em>—Lord, how
            many poems have been written on ‘Sunset’—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘The clouds are massed in splendid state</div>
                    <div class="line">At heaven’s unbarred western gate</div>
                    <div class="line">Where troops of star-eyed spirits wait’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">By gad, what does that mean?”</p>
        <p>“I—I—don’t know,” faltered startled Emily, whose
            wits had been scattered by the sudden swoop of his spiked
            glance.</p>
        <p>Mr. Carpenter snorted.</p>
        <p>“For heaven’s sake, girl, don’t write what you can’t
            understand yourself. And this—<em>To Life</em>—‘Life, as thy
            gift I ask no rainbow joy’—is that sincere? Is it, girl.
            Stop and think. <em>Do</em> you ask ‘no rainbow joy’ of life?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_344">344</a></span></p>
        <p>He transfixed her with another glare. But Emily was
            beginning to pick herself up a bit. Nevertheless, she suddenly
            felt oddly ashamed of the very elevated and unselfish
            desires expressed in that sonnet.</p>
        <p>“No—o,” she answered reluctantly. “I <em>do</em> want rainbow
            joy—lots of it.”</p>
        <p>“Of course you do. We all do. We don’t get it—you
            won’t get it—but don’t be hypocrite enough to pretend
            you don’t want it, even in a sonnet. <i>Lines to a
                Mountain Cascade</i>— ‘On its dark rocks like the whiteness
            of a veil around a bride’—Where did you see a
            mountain cascade in Prince Edward Island?”</p>
        <p>“Nowhere—there’s a picture of one in Dr. Burnley’s
            library.”</p>
        <p>“<em>A Wood Stream</em>—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘The threading sunbeams quiver,</div>
                    <div class="line">The bending bushes shiver,</div>
                    <div class="line">O’er the little shadowy river’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">There’s only one more rhyme that occurs to me and that’s
            ‘liver.’ Why did you leave it out?”</p>
        <p>Emily writhed.</p>
        <p>“<em>Wind Song</em>—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line indent">‘I have shaken the dew in the meadows</div>
                    <div class="line">From the clover’s creamy gown’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Pretty, but weak. <em>June</em>—June, for heaven’s sake, girl,
            don’t write poetry on June. It’s the sickliest subject in
            the world. It’s been written to death.”</p>
        <p>“No, June is immortal,” cried Emily suddenly, a mutinous
            sparkle replacing the strained look in her eyes.
            She was not going to let Mr. Carpenter have it all his
            own way.</p>
        <p>But Mr. Carpenter had tossed <em>June</em> aside without reading
            a line of it.</p>
        <p>“‘I weary of the hungry world’—what do you know<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_345">345</a></span>
            of the hungry world?—you in your New Moon seclusion
            of old trees and old maids—but it <em>is</em> hungry. <em>Ode to
                Winter</em>—the seasons are a sort of disease all young poets
            must have, it seems—ha! ‘Spring will not forget’—<em>that’s</em>
            a good line—the only good line in it. H’m’m—<em>Wanderings</em>—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘I’ve learned the secret of the rune</div>
                    <div class="line">That the somber pines on the hillside croon’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Have you—<em>have</em> you learned that secret?”</p>
        <p>“I think I’ve always known it,” said Emily dreamily.
            That flash of unimaginable sweetness that sometimes surprised
            her had just come and gone.</p>
        <p>“<em>Aim and Endeavour</em>—too didactic—too didactic.
            You’ve no right to try to teach until you’re old—and then
            you won’t want to—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘Her face was like a star all pale and fair’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Were you looking in the glass when you composed that
            line?”</p>
        <p>“No—” indignantly.</p>
        <p>“‘When the morning light is shaken like a banner on
            the hill’—a good line—a good line—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘Oh, on such a golden morning</div>
                    <div class="line">To be living is delight’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Too much like a faint echo of Wordsworth. <em>The Sea
                in September</em>—‘blue and austerely bright’—‘austerely
            bright’—child, how can you marry the right adjectives
            like that? <em>Morning</em>—‘all the secret fears that haunt the
            night’—what do <em>you</em> know of the fears that haunt the
            night?”</p>
        <p>“I know something,” said Emily decidedly, remembering
            her first night at Wyther Grange.</p>
        <p>“<em>To a Dead Day</em>—</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_346">346</a></span></p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘With the chilly calm on her brow</div>
                    <div class="line">That only the dead may wear’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Have you ever <em>seen</em> the chilly calm on the brow of the
            dead, Emily?”</p>
        <p>“Yes,” said Emily softly, recalling that grey dawn in
            the old house in the hollow.</p>
        <p>“I thought so—otherwise you couldn’t have written
            <em>that</em>—and even as it is—how old are you, jade?”
        </p>
        <p>“Thirteen, last May.”</p>
        <p>“Humph! <em>Lines to Mrs. George Irving’s Infant
                Son</em>—you should study the art of titles, Emily—there’s
            a fashion in them as in everything else. Your titles are
            as out of date as the candles of New Moon—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘Soundly he sleeps with his red lips pressed</div>
                    <div class="line">Like a beautiful blossom close to her breast’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">The rest isn’t worth reading. <em>September</em>—is there a
            month you’ve missed?—‘Windy meadows harvest-deep’—good
            line. <em>Blair Water by Moonlight</em>—gossamer,
            Emily, nothing but gossamer. <em>The Garden of
                New Moon</em>—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘Beguiling laughter and old song</div>
                    <div class="line">Of merry maids and men’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Good line—I suppose New Moon <em>is</em> full of ghosts.
            ‘Death’s fell minion well fulfilled its part’—that might
            have passed in Addison’s day but not now—not now,
            Emily—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘Your azure dimples are the graves</div>
                    <div class="line">Where million buried sunbeams play’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Atrocious, girl—atrocious. Graves aren’t playgrounds.
            How much would <em>you</em> play if you were buried?”</p>
        <p>Emily writhed and blushed again. <em>Why</em> couldn’t she
            have seen that herself? <em>Any</em> goose could have seen it.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_347">347</a></span></p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">“‘Sail onward, ships—white wings, sail on,</div>
                    <div class="line">Till past the horizon’s purple bar</div>
                    <div class="line">You drift from sight.—In flush of dawn</div>
                    <div class="line">Sail on, and ’neath the evening star’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Trash—trash—and yet there’s a picture in it—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘Lap softly, purple waves. I dream,</div>
                    <div class="line">And dreams are sweet—I’ll wake no more’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">Ah, but you’ll have to wake if you want to accomplish
            anything. Girl, you’ve used <em>purple</em> twice in the same
            poem.</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘Buttercups in a golden frenzy’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">‘a golden frenzy’—girl, I <em>see</em> the wind shaking the buttercups.</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘From the purple gates of the west I come’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">You’re too fond of purple, Emily.”</p>
        <p>“It’s such a lovely word,” said Emily.</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">“‘Dreams that seem too bright to die’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi"><em>Seem</em> but never <em>are</em>, Emily—</p>
        <div class="poetry-container">
            <div class="poetry">
                <div class="verse">
                    <div class="line">‘The luring voice of the echo, fame’—</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p class="noi">So you’ve heard it, too? It <em>is</em> a lure and for most of us
            only an echo. And that’s the last of the lot.”</p>
        <p>Mr. Carpenter swept the little sheets aside, folded his
            arms on the desk, and looked over his glasses at
            Emily.</p>
        <p>Emily looked back at him mutely, nervelessly. All the
            life seemed to have been drained out of her body and
            concentrated in her eyes.</p>
        <p>“Ten good lines out of four hundred, Emily—comparatively
            good, that is—and all the rest balderdash—balderdash,
            Emily.”</p>
        <p>“I—suppose so,” said Emily faintly.</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_348">348</a></span></p>
        <p>Her eyes brimmed with tears—her lips quivered. She
            could not help it. Pride was hopelessly submerged in
            the bitterness of her disappointment. She felt exactly
            like a candle that somebody had blown out.</p>
        <p>“What are you crying for?” demanded Mr. Carpenter.</p>
        <p>Emily blinked away the tears and tried to laugh.</p>
        <p>“I—I’m sorry—you think it’s no good—” she said.</p>
        <p>Mr. Carpenter gave the desk a mighty thump.</p>
        <p>“No good! Didn’t I tell you there were ten good lines?
            Jade, for ten righteous men Sodom had been spared.”</p>
        <p>“Do you mean—that—after all—” The candle was
            being relighted again.</p>
        <p>“Of course, I mean. If at thirteen you can write ten
            good lines, at twenty you’ll write ten times ten—if the
            gods are kind. Stop messing over months, though—and
            don’t imagine you’re a genius either, if you <em>have</em> written
            ten decent lines. I think there’s <em>something</em> trying to
            speak through you—but you’ll have to make yourself a
            fit instrument for it. You’ve got to work hard and sacrifice—by
            gad, girl, you’ve chosen a jealous goddess. And
            she never lets her votaries go—not even when she shuts
            her ears forever to their plea. What have you there?”</p>
        <p>Emily, her heart thrilling, handed him her Jimmy-book.
            She was so happy that it shone through her whole
            being with a positive radiance. She saw her future,
            wonderful, brilliant—oh, her goddess would listen to <em>her</em>—“Emily
            B. Starr, the distinguished poet”—“E. Byrd
            Starr, the rising young novelist”—</p>
        <p>She was recalled from her enchanting reverie by a
            chuckle from Mr. Carpenter. Emily wondered a little
            uneasily what he was laughing at. She didn’t think there
            was anything funny in <em>that</em> book. It contained only
            three or four of her latest stories—<em>The Butterfly Queen</em>,
            a little fairy tale; <em>The Disappointed House</em>, wherein she
            had woven a pretty dream of hopes come true after long
            years; <em>The Secret of the Glen</em>, which, in spite of its title,
            was a fanciful little dialogue between the Spirit of the<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_349">349</a></span>
            Snow, the Spirit of the Grey Rain, the Spirit of Mist,
            and the Spirit of Moonshine.</p>
        <p>“So you think I am not beautiful when I say my
            prayers?” said Mr. Carpenter.</p>
        <p>Emily gasped—realized what had happened—made a
            frantic grab at her Jimmy-book—missed it. Mr. Carpenter
            held it up beyond her reach and mocked at her.</p>
        <p>She had given him the wrong Jimmy-book! And this
            one, oh, horrors, what was in it? Or rather, what wasn’t
            in it? Sketches of everyone in Blair Water—and a
            full—a very full—description of Mr. Carpenter himself.
            Intent on describing him exactly, she had been as mercilessly
            lucid as she always was, especially in regard to the
            odd faces he made on mornings when he opened the school
            day with a prayer. Thanks to her dramatic knack of
            word painting, Mr. Carpenter <em>lived</em> in that sketch. Emily
            did not know it, but <em>he</em> did—he saw himself as in a glass
            and the artistry of it pleased him so that he cared for
            nothing else. Besides, she had drawn his good points
            quite as clearly as his bad ones. And there were some
            sentences in it—“He looks as if he knew a great deal that
            can never be any use to him”—“I think he wears the
            black coat Mondays because it makes him feel that he
            hasn’t been drunk at all.” Who or what had taught the
            little jade these things? Oh, her goddess would not pass
            Emily by!</p>
        <p>“I’m—sorry,” said Emily, crimson with shame all over
            her dainty paleness.</p>
        <p>“Why, I wouldn’t have missed this for all the poetry
            you’ve written or ever will write! By gad, it’s literature—<em>literature</em>—and
            you’re only thirteen. But you
            don’t know what’s ahead of you—the stony hills—the
            steep ascents—the buffets—the discouragements. Stay
            in the valley if you’re wise. Emily, <em>why</em> do you want
            to write? Give me your reason.”</p>
        <p>“I want to be famous and rich,” said Emily coolly.</p>
        <p>“Everybody does. Is that all?”</p>
        <p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_350">350</a></span></p>
        <p>“No. I just <em>love</em> to write.”</p>
        <p>“A better reason—but not enough—not enough. Tell
            me this—if you knew you would be poor as a church
            mouse all your life—if you knew you’d never have a
            line published—would you still go on writing—<em>would</em>
            you?”</p>
        <p>“Of course I would,” said Emily disdainfully. “Why,
            I <em>have</em> to write—I can’t help it by times—I’ve just <em>got</em>
            to.”</p>
        <p>“Oh—then I’d waste my breath giving advice at all.
            If it’s <em>in</em> you to climb you must—there are those who
            <em>must</em> lift their eyes to the hills—they can’t breathe properly
            in the valleys. God help them if there’s some weakness
            in them that prevents their climbing. You don’t
            understand a word I’m saying—yet. But go on—climb!
            There, take your book and go home. Thirty years from
            now I will have a claim to distinction in the fact that
            Emily Byrd Starr was once a pupil of mine. Go—go—before
            I remember what a disrespectful baggage you are
            to write such stuff about me and be properly enraged.”
        </p>
        <p>Emily went, still a bit scared but oddly exultant behind
            her fright. She was so happy that her happiness
            seemed to irradiate the world with its own splendour. All
            the sweet sounds of nature around her seemed like the
            broken words of her own delight. Mr. Carpenter
            watched her out of sight from the old worn threshold.</p>
        <p>“Wind—and flame—and sea!” he muttered. “Nature
            is always taking us by surprise. This child has—what
            I have never had and would have made any sacrifice to
            have. But ‘the gods don’t allow us to be in their debt’—she
            will pay for it—she will pay.”</p>
        <p>At sunset Emily sat in the lookout room. It was
            flooded with soft splendour. Outside, in sky and trees,
            were delicate tintings and aerial sounds. Down in the
            garden Daffy was chasing dead leaves along the red
            walks. The sight of his sleek, striped sides, the grace
            of his movements, gave her pleasure—as did the beautiful,<span class="pagenum"><a
                    id="Page_351">351</a></span>
            even, glossy furrows of the ploughed fields beyond
            the lane, and the first faint white star in the crystal-green
            sky.</p>
        <p>The wind of the autumn night was blowing trumpets
            of fairyland on the hills; and over in Lofty John’s bush
            was laughter—like the laughter of fauns. Ilse and Perry
            and Teddy were waiting there for her—they had made a
            tryst for a twilight romp. She would go to them—presently—not
            yet. She was so full of rapture that she must
            write it out before she went back from her world of
            dreams to the world of reality. Once she would have
            poured it into a letter to her father. She could no longer
            do that. But on the table before her lay a brand-new
            Jimmy-book. She pulled it towards her, took up her
            pen, and on its first virgin page she wrote.</p>
        <p class="mb0 center smcap">New Moon,</p>
        <p class="mt0 mb0 center-right4 smcap">Blair Water,</p>
        <p class="mt0 mb0 center-right8 smcap">P. E. Island.</p>
        <p class="mt0 center-right2 smcap">October 8th.</p>
        <p>I am going to write a diary, that it may be published
            when I die.</p>
        <p class="center mt3">THE END</p>
        <div class="section">
            <hr class="divider" />
            <div class="tn background">
                <p class="center p120"><a id="Transcribers_Note" />Transcriber’s Note:</p>
                <p>Attempts have been made to standardise punctuation according to the
                    style used in the original book. Contractions without apostrophes
                    have been retained as published. Spelling and hyphenation also have
                    been retained as printed in the original publication except as follows:</p>
                <ul>
                    <li>Page 58<br />
                        going to open the window, Aunt Elizaeth <i>changed to</i><br />
                        going to open the window, Aunt <a href="#Elizabeth" class="pginternal">Elizabeth</a></li>
                    <li>Page 68<br />
                        is one of the places were dreams grow <i>changed to</i><br />
                        is one of the places <a href="#where" class="pginternal">where</a> dreams grow</li>
                    <li>Page 94<br />
                        with this unseenly display of <i>changed to</i><br />
                        with this <a href="#unseemly" class="pginternal">unseemly</a> display of</li>
                    <li>Page 117<br />
                        ike a huge grey cat basking <i>changed to</i><br />
                        <a href="#like" class="pginternal">like</a> a huge grey cat basking
                    </li>
                    <li>Page 145<br />
                        as Cousin Jimmie said <i>changed to</i><br />
                        as Cousin <a href="#Jimmy1" class="pginternal">Jimmy</a> said</li>
                    <li>Page 147<br />
                        She helped Cousin Jimmie fill it <i>changed to</i><br />
                        She helped Cousin <a href="#Jimmy2" class="pginternal">Jimmy</a> fill it</li>
                    <li>Page 154<br />
                        Cousin Jimmie added that Tom <i>changed to</i><br />
                        Cousin <a href="#Jimmy3" class="pginternal">Jimmy</a> added that Tom</li>
                    <li>Page 249<br />
                        have run away with him myseif <i>changed to</i><br />
                        have run away with him <a href="#myself" class="pginternal">myself</a></li>
                    <li>Page 249<br />
                        bad-tempered at the Priests <i>changed to</i><br />
                        bad-tempered <a href="#as" class="pginternal">as</a> the Priests</li>
                    <li>Page 270<br />
                        to the contrary nothwithstanding <i>changed to</i><br />
                        to the contrary <a href="#notwithstanding" class="pginternal">notwithstanding</a></li>
                </ul>
            </div>
        </div>
</body>

</html>
